Solvay Adds Thermoplastic Composite Capacity at South Carolina Plant. SOPREMA To Open Building Envelope Supply in Dallas Market September 21 2021 KEYWORDS building envelope / building materials / dallas / SOPREMA / supply Order Reprints No Comments SOPREMA Inc. announces plans to open a 63000 sq. ft. multi-purpose Building Envelope Supply (SOPREMA BES) facility in early 2022 in Carrollton Texas. The SOPREMA BES will stock and sell only SOPREMA Group branded building materials and related accessories including SOPREMA Chem Link and DERBIGUM. This will be the third SOPREMA BES location in the United States. SOPREMA operates two other sites one in Doral Fla. and one in Pompano Beach Fla. The brand-new warehouse will feature a sales counter product showroom training classrooms business offices and hands-on demo/training spaces. “In Florida and now north Texas where we have been direct selling for many years and where company warehousing already existed our customers have asked for more convenience and training space said Tim Kersey CEO of U.S. Operations for SOPREMA. “Each BES location is designed to meet these challenges including office space for our local team and providing more convenient meeting points to host and train our contractor network as well as our architect engineering and consultant customers.
PPG Receives EPA Registration for COPPER ARMOR Paint. PPG Receives EPA Registration for COPPER ARMOR Paint October 6 2021 KEYWORDS antimicrobial coatings / antiviral coatings Order Reprints No Comments PITTSBURGH – PPG recently announced that the company has received U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) registration for its PPG COPPER ARMOR™ antimicrobial paint containing Corning® Guardiant ® technology proven to kill 99.9% of bacteria and viruses on the painted surface including SARS-CoV-2 in two hours. The Copper Armor product’s efficacy was measured using tests that simulate real-world contamination that are mandated by the EPA for products making claims against harmful pathogens. Following this registration PPG will begin selling the product in late 2021 through U.S. PPG PAINTS™ stores independent retailers and select home improvement stores. “Now more than ever our customers are seeking multiple layers of protection from viruses and bacteria on the many surfaces they’re touching while navigating the ongoing pandemic said Tim Knavish PPG Executive Vice President. “PPG Copper Armor with Corning Guardiant technology is the first virus killing paint in the U.S. and will provide an extra layer of protection on the walls that surround us where we live work and learn. Intended for application in high-traffic areas such as health care hospitality office and educational environments as well as residential applications PPG Copper Armor is powered by Corning Guardiant technology which contains naturally occurring copper that is known to have antimicrobial efficacy. PPG’s Copper Armor paint with Corning Guardiant technology continuously kills viruses and bacteria within two hours of contact with the painted surface for up to five years providing a safeguard against harmful microbes on walls trim and doors. PPG Copper Armor also provides a mold- and mildew-resistant coating on the dry paint film. “We started development on Corning Guardiant several years ago with the belief that copper is the key to delivering a truly effective antimicrobial coating said Joydeep Lahiri Division Vice President and Program Director Specialty Surfaces Corning Incorporated. “We’re excited about our partnership with PPG as well as its latest product offering – Copper Armor – which helps make antimicrobial surface technology more readily available to the public. Additionally this zero-VOC paint also provides the same excellent hide durability and premium application properties that customers expect from PPG paint’s more than 135 years of leading industry expertise. Available in eggshell satin and semi-gloss PPG Copper Armor can be tinted to more than 600 colors from the PPG paint palette. To learn more about PPG Copper Armor paint visit www.ppgpaints.com/copper-armor.
Minnesota Rubber and Plastics Breaks Ground on Innovation Center. Minnesota Rubber and Plastics Breaks Ground on Innovation Center 10/06/2021 Minnesota Rubber and Plastics recently celebrated the company’s new 9000-square-foot Innovation Center with a groundbreaking ceremony at headquarters in Plymouth Minnesota. Minnesota Rubber and Plastics also announced a contest for students in grades 6-8 to experience being an “engineer for a day by submitting innovative ideas for new products or processes that address issues that are important to everyone – environmental sustainability water quality transportation efficiency and healthcare. The contest will kick off in the coming weeks and the winning submission will be invited to the new Minnesota Rubber & Plastics Innovation Center upon its completion in spring 2022. Quadion LLC d.b.a. Minnesota Rubber and Plastics shared the expansion plans for the first time at the Medical Design and Manufacturing (MD&M) West tradeshow on August 10-12 2021 in booth #3268. The new Innovation Center will provide customers with direct access to multiple scientists and engineers in an immersive design-prototype-build-test process. The goal of this engineer-to-engineer collaboration is to bring healthcare innovations to life faster. The company has built a strong reputation over the course of its 76-year history for designing developing manufacturing and assembling products for harsh environments tight tolerances and technically demanding applications including multi-material solutions and custom material formulations. For more information visit www.mnrubber.com.
Lanxess halogen-free flame-retardant compounds aim for electromobility. Lanxess halogen-free flame-retardant compounds aim for electromobility Glass-fiber-reinforced PA6 compounds Durethan BKV30FN01 and Durethan BKV30FN04 DUS064 are designed for use in flame-retardant thick-walled components. Durethan BKV30FN01 and BKV30FN04 DUS064 show potential in the field of electromobility and its periphery such as for components like thick-walled battery covers or charging plugs and the associated connector holders. Photo Credit: Lanxess Lanxess (Cologne Germany) is expanding its range of halogen-free flame-retardant glassfiber-reinforced polyamide 6 (PA6) compounds to include Durethan BKV30FN01 — which is reinforced with 30% glass fiber — and Durethan BKV30FN04 DUS064. Both products are designed for use in thick-walled components with optimized requirements regarding fire resistance. Potential applications include power tools household appliances and industrial equipment. “These structural materials also offer outstanding potential in the field of electromobility and its periphery for components such as thick-walled battery covers or charging plugs and the associated connector holders says Alexander Radeck an expert in flame-retardant plastics at Lanxess. The new products are originally derived from Durethan BKV30FN04 which the company says is already successfully deployed in the mass production of flame-retardant components. This compound meets the requirements of the UL 94 flammability test of the U.S. testing institute Underwriters Laboratories Inc. achieving a V-0 classification with a test body thickness of 0.4 millimeters. Further Durethan BKV30FN01 and Durethan BKV30FN04 DUS064 are said to be specially designed for components with wall thicknesses of 0.75-1.5 millimeters and more. The compounds have a UL V-0 classification with 0.75 millimeters (Durethan BKV30FN01) and 1.5 millimeters (Durethan BKV30FN04 DUS064). “Due to the specially optimized flame-retardant package the material types offer excellent processability during injection molding. They also ensure high-quality surfaces even with large planar component geometries says Radeck. LANXESS is planning to expand the Durethan BKV FN ra
Hexion Holdings Plans to Separate into Two Independent Companies. Hexion Holdings Plans to Separate into Two Independent Companies October 6 2021 KEYWORDS adhesives / epoxy / specialty chemicals suppliers Order Reprints No Comments COLUMBUS OH — Hexion Holdings Corp. recently announced its plan to separate into two independent companies. The two companies will be Hexion Holdings composed of the company’s Adhesives and Versatic Acids™ and Derivatives product lines and Hexion Coatings and Composites (US) Inc. (HCC) composed of Hexion Holdings’ former epoxy-based Coatings and Composites products. HCC will be renamed at a later date. Hexion Holdings anticipates that the HCC separation transaction will be in the form of a distribution of 100% of the stock of HCC a new and independent company to current holders of Hexion Holdings common stock and warrants. Upon completion of the HCC spin-off current Hexion Holdings shareholders will own shares of both Hexion Holdings and HCC. “Today marks the beginning of an exciting new chapter in Hexions 122-year history and continues our strategy of narrowing our focus improving the Company’s financial flexibility and driving long-term value creation for our shareholders said Craig Rogerson Hexion Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer. “With our recent strong performance and after a comprehensive evaluation of strategic actions aimed at unlocking the value of our businesses our Board and management team have determined that now is the right time to pursue a separation through an IPO and spinoff. The transaction will provide each company with significant liquidity a sharper strategic focus and appropriately capitalized balance sheets while we continue to serve our customers’ needs. It is a testament to our people and our focus on operational execution that we have reached this successful milestone where our businesses are ideally positioned to be two strong standalone companies. The company believes that this separation will result in material benefits to the standalone companies including: • Distinct strategic and management focus on specific operational R&D and growth priorities including the analysis of macroeconomic trends and the implementation of financial targets that best fit each business • A capital structure dividend policy and capital deployment strategy tailored to specific business models and growth strategies. Both businesses are expected to have direct access to the debt and equity capital markets to fund their respective growth strategies and • An investor base that is aligned with the streamlined value proposition for each company. Following the separation Hexion Holdings will consist of the company’s existing Adhesives and Versatic Acids and Derivatives product lines. Hexion Holdings will continue to build on its momentum driven primarily by strong new residential construction and remodeling demand in North America continued capacity expansion progress and gains from innovative new products as well as the need for more sustainable building and coatings materials. As a standalone company Hexion Holdings is expected to have favorable cash flow attributes and a stronger financial profile. HCC will consist of Hexion Holdings former base and specialty epoxy resins product lines. HCC will remain a leading global supplier of epoxy resins and systems. As a standalone company HCC will have greater ability to grow and expand its position in attractive global markets. Importantly HCC is also focused on addressing customers’ demands for more environmentally preferred solutions and providing innovative solutions for the wind energy and automotive industries. With its senior management team based in Rotterdam the Netherlands HCC expects to maintain a significant global presence. Stafford Texas will serve as its primary U.S. office and HCC will also maintain an executive office in Shanghai China. In addition HCC will continue to operate world-scale epoxy plants in Pernis and Deer Park Texas as well as additional manufacturing operations in the United States Germany Spain and South Korea. Craig Rogerson will continue to lead Hexion Holdings as Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer. George Knight will continue in his role at Hexion Holdings as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Ann Frederix currently Senior Vice President Coatings & Composites Hexion Holdings is expected to serve as Chief Executive Officer of HCC. Joost Vierhout currently Senior Finance Director Global Epoxy and Versatics Hexion Holdings is expected to serve as Chief Financial Officer of HCC. Hexion Holdings and HCC are expected to enter into a shared services Agreement which will provide for Hexion Holdings to provide to HCC on a transitional basis certain services or functions that the companies historically have shared and one or more commercial agreements relating to the ownership management maintenance support and use of certain shared operations services by Hexion Holdings to HCC. The HCC separation transaction is currently targeted for completion in the fourth quarter 2021 subject to final approval by the board of directors customary regulatory approvals and tax and legal considerations. Learn more at https://www.hexion.com/.
Developers see hope in using waste plastic in concrete. A new project in Pennsylvania will transform hard-to-recycle plastic — actually all types of resin — into a sand-like concrete additive. Equipment is arriving at a 14000-square-foot facility in York Pa. that will be home to the Center of Regenerative Design and Collaborations patented approach aimed at diverting plastics from both the environment and disposal. It is an approach that has caught the attention of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste a nonprofit group backed by some of the biggest names in the plastics industry working to end plastic pollution. The York facility will use a process developed and refined by CRDC at a pilot facility near San José Costa Rica that now also will ramp up to full production thanks to a low interest loan from the alliance to kickstart commercialization. CRDC expects to be able to process a combined 26400 tons of plastic waste each year between the two locations once they are running at full capacity. The end product is called Resin8 which is a take on the resin identification code of categorizing different plastics into Nos. 1 through 7 explained Donald Thomson chairman and founder of CRDC in a Sept. 14 interview from Costa Rica. Thomson thinks CRDC has cracked the economics-vs.-environmental code to create a product from troublesome plastic waste that will not only be valued by end uses in the concrete industry but also provide a substantial market for plastic that would otherwise be littered thrown away or burned. Its not hard to find plastic if you find a solution he said. The CDRC process takes mixed plastics and transforms them into sand-like like consistency that will easily blend in concrete. The company has overcome a past hurdle of plastic not adhering to other constituents in the concrete mix through a unique process Thomson explained. Between 2 and 10 percent of the concrete mix can be made up of Resin8 for structural applications and that number rises to up to 30 percent for non-structural uses he said. Considering the amount of concrete thats used each year the potential appetite for Resin8 is huge. A key to the effort Thomson said is getting both construction companies and waste management firms on board with regional projects to help ensure a supply plastic as well as and end use. AEPW is loaning CRDC $4.8 million to build the new site in Pennsylvania and expand the pilot plant in Costa Rica. The loan is just what the fledgling effort needs to help make the economics work Thomson said. The financial assistance has been huge from the alliance. The alliance itself is an incredible industry entity. I dont think theres been anything like this before. The alliance also sees the global potential of the technology created by CDRC. The Alliance is on a mission to end plastic waste in the environment — which means finding viable solutions to advance a circular economy and ensuring their ability to scale for impact. Together with CRDC we can help drive environmental economic and social value for hard-to-recycle plastics said Alliance CEO Jacob Duer said in a statement. Were excited to deliver this solution to the North and Central American markets with the aim of bringing this to a global audience. He views the potential for Resin8 to be substantial and far-reaching around the globe. CRDC spent the last few years refining the process and establishing connections to launch on what he hopes is a wide scale. Along with these two locations there also is another pilot facility in Cape Town South Africa. Now that were in this its now our objective to get as many of these facilities built as quickly as we can build them Thomson said. Resin8 already has been used to help build hundreds of Habitat for Humanity homes in Costa Rica. Adding the material makes building materials up to 15 percent lighter or stronger depending on the application with up to 20 percent better insulation.
Arkema to Acquire Ashland’s Performance Adhesives Division for Nearly $1.7 Billion. Arkema recently announced that it has signed an agreement for the acquisition of Ashland’s Performance Adhesives business. The offer was reportedly made on the basis of a $1.65 billion enterprise value. According to Arkema the acquisition aligns with the group’s ambition to become a pure specialty materials player by 2024 while supporting Bostik’s strong long-term growth ambition. “We are very happy and proud of this move said Thierry Le Hénaff Arkema’s chairman and CEO. “In a context of strong earnings growth following the recent divestment of PMMA and the start of the strategic review of Fluorogases the acquisition of Ashland’s adhesives business is a fantastic opportunity to reinforce the Group’s presence in the US and to accelerate Bostik’s growth. With an excellent business which holds leading positions in many high-growth segments and a high level of profitability this project fully aligns with the Group’s targeted acquisition strategy. “Ashland’s adhesives will constitute a new technological platform for our adhesives and the synergies are particularly high given the geographical and application complementarities with Bostik and our Coating Solutions platform. The cultures of the teams are very close focused on customer centricity and sustainable innovation. We look forward to welcoming Ashland’s high-caliber management team and to partner together for this high value creative deal. With projected sales of $360 million for 2021 Ashland’s Performance Adhesives business has reportedly enjoyed sustained growth in recent years and has significant growth potential in Europe and Asia. The division employs approximately 330 people and operates six production plants mainly in North America. “Performance Adhesives is a high-quality business with a strong and dedicated team that has demonstrated consistent and exceptional financial performance over the years said Guillermo Novo Ashland chairman and CEO. “I want to thank the leadership team and global employees for their dedication and commitment to Ashland and to our customers. I believe that Arkema will be a great owner of the business creating value for customers and employees. Ashland reports that it expects net proceeds from the sale to total approximately $1.2-$1.3 billion. The transaction is driven by Ashland’s strategy to focus its resources on expanding its additive and ingredients portfolio which will be aligned with long-term environment social and governance (ESG) drivers and with resilient high-quality consumer markets that value innovation. The project is subject to the approval of the antitrust authorities in the countries concerned. Relevant legal information and consultation process involving employee representative bodies will be performed before closing.
Construction ‘supercycle’ predicted on wave of government spending _ Financial Times. Construction sector updates Sign up to myFT Daily Digest to be the first to know about Construction sector news. Industry bosses are predicting a worldwide construction “supercycle that is set to fuel demand for building materials as governments pump billions of dollars into postpandemic infrastructure projects. Jan Jenisch chief executive of the world’s largest cement producer Holcim forecast that a boom in global construction would carry on for years as developed nations step up spending on modernising infrastructure. “Stimulus will slowly start. That’s going to be for the next four or five years he told the Financial Times. “I think we are in a supercycle for construction and building materials going forward. Fernando González chief executive of Mexico’s Cemex backed his Swiss-based rival saying stimulus in advanced economies would also boost cement demand in emerging markets through remittances and trade. Construction ‘supercycle’ predicted on wave of government spending Industry bosses forecast global surge in demand for building materials “Additional fiscal stimulus such as the [EU] Green Wave and the proposed America’s job plan will lead to a significant cement-intensive infrastructure spend in late 2022 and beyond he said. Noble Francis economics director at trade body the Construction Products Association agreed there would be a “long-term supercycle for construction in important markets. He pointed to a long-term shift by governments towards net-zero carbon emissions as well as big infrastructure projects across roads rail water ports and energy as they seek to drive economic growth. Plans that are set to boost spending on infrastructure and lift demand for cement the world’s most consumed man-made material include US president Joe Biden’s proposed $1tn infrastructure package. Brussels has also begun approving national plans to dish out its €800bn EU recovery fund while in the UK prime minister Boris Johnson has set aside £600bn over the next five years for infrastructure. Cemex’s chief financial officer Maher Al-Haffar predicted there would be 20 to 30 per cent higher demand for cement in the US if Biden’s infrastructure bill was passed supporting demand for imports. But Francis tempered some of the enthusiasm. The years ahead were unlikely to match the supercycle of the 2000s which was driven by an unprecedented period of growth for China he said. “This is likely to be a substantial supercycle that is slower than that of the 2000s but sustained over a longer period. Construction industry executives also fear that higher prices could water down the impact of government infrastructure spending. Prices for building materials have already jumped as economies around the world reopen and lift travel and lockdown restrictions. Travis Perkins the UK’s largest builders’ merchant increased prices of bagged cement by 15 per cent in May and warned that inflationary pressures would persist. The surge in demand has also led to shortfalls of timber and plasterboard-related materials with products such as insulation boards sold by Holcim sold out for the rest of the year.
Burgess Pigments Announces Price Increase - Coatings World. Effective August 9 2021 or as contracts allow Burgess Pigment will increase all grades an average of 8% on average. Certain market segments will realize significantly higher increases depending upon grade form logistics package and volume. Pricing has remained unchanged since January of 2018. According to the company costs increases have accumulated over the last four years while the Burgess continually strived to manage and reduce its customer exposure. In our present environment of unpredictable and uncontrolled raw material and logistics cost increases we are now forced to address these unrelenting costs pressures with our customer base said Thomas Adrien executive vice president sales and technical at Burgess Pigment.
Global light vehicle production impacts now expected well into 2022 _ IHS Markit. IHS Markit analysts Mark Fulthorpe and Phil Amsrud offer the latest analysis on the global semiconductor shortage automotive supply chain challenges and global light vehicle production impacts including the latest IHS Markit forecasts reflecting light vehicle production impacts well into 2022. The estimates here do not include the latest announcement by Toyota and any others that have followed since the beginning of this week. Wafer and Semiconductor Capacity Remains Tight For the first half of 2021 the semiconductor shortage issue was mainly that of wafer front-end capacity. The good news is the disruptions due to the fire at Renesass Naka facility and the ice storm in Texas that impacted NXP Infineon and Samsung fabs are largely behind us. Wafer fab capacity remains tight but with those plant disruptions behind us the impact is lower than in the first half. Having wafers is necessary to make integrated circuits (ICs) but not sufficient. The front-end process is followed by the back-end assembly and test process which is another challenge. While front-end processing transforms a raw 200mm or 300mm silicon wafer into thousands of dice each die needs to be packaged to provide a complete IC that can be soldered onto a circuit board to be part of an electronics control unit (ECU). Wafer fab capacity got all the attention early this year and rightly so but if you cant put the die into a package so it can be put into an ECU then you still cant produce and sell a car. -- Phil Amsrud senior principal analyst IHS Markit Once the wafers are processed they are sent to the assembly and test location to be diced packaged and tested before sending them to a customer to be placed into an ECU and then into a car. Constraints in the back-end process can disrupt the supply chain just like the constraints in the frontend process. During the first half of 2021 wafer fab capacity constraints were causing the greatest disruption and getting the most attention but now that those have improved other related constraints in getting leadframes substrates and resins are getting attention. COVID-19 Still Impacting Supply Chain 8/20/2021 Global light vehicle production impacts now expected well into 2022 | IHS Markit https://ihsmarkit.com/research-analysis/global-light-vehicle-production-impacts-now-expected-well-into.html 2/3 Unlike the capacity constraints in wafer fabs which was impacting mainly automotive MCUs assembly capacity constraints impact all semiconductor types including sensors power supplies and discretes. Assembly and test locations are concentrated in China South Korea Japan Singapore Philippines Indonesia Thailand Vietnam and Malaysia. With the exception of Singapore and Malaysia the vaccination rates are reported to be less than 6% for many of these countries according to the Center from Strategic and International Studies. Malaysia has been shutdown due to COVID-19 outbreaks recently and its vaccination rate is almost 12%. Several of these countries have seen their average infections increase over the past 2 weeks and the ongoing threat of COVID-19 impacting labor forces in other countries is real. This threatens the operators at the assembly and test locations themselves as well as the workers necessary to move the finished products to distribution hubs for global distribution. Like wafer fab capacity there is a need for expanded packaging capacity. However the margins in assembly and test are a fraction of those in wafer fabs so there is more hesitation to add capacity speculatively. There also is a shortage of assembly equipment with some lead times increasing to 40 weeks. One of the main reasons the lead times for this equipment has increased is because they cannot get semiconductors. In short the equipment needed to make more semiconductors has limited availability because they cannot get enough semiconductors. As result IHS Markit expects the semiconductor shortages across the automotive sector now extending into Q1 2022 and possibly into Q2. Both Intel and Infineon have cautioned that the situation may persist throughout all of 2022. So while improvements in wafer capacity has improved the situation is still fraught with challenges. Global Light Vehicle Production Forecast Implications - Latest Update Reflects 8.3% Increase over 2020 The global forecast for light vehicle production in 2021 now stands at 80.78 million units with our latest August release. This represents an 8.3% increase over 2020 levels. Output lost to disruption to the semiconductor supply chain is estimated to have reached 1.44 million units in Q1 and 2.60 million units in Q2. Visible downtime in Q3 now stands at 1.60 million units underlining the assessment that Q3 will continue to see disruption and this is becoming more significant. While we do not expect to see levels of disruption like those in Q2 it now seems highly likely that the impact will be in the range of 1.8 to 2.1 million units for the quarter if the rate of downtime that we currently see was to continue through September. We expect Q4 will be exposed to ongoing disruption and this disruption is now expected to spill over into Q1 2022. Q2 2022 may be the point at which we look for the stabilization of supply with recovery efforts now starting only from H2 2022. Across the full year taking the estimates for Q3 and Q4 in addition to the losses already identified in the first half of the year this would put the full-year risk associated with semiconductor shortages between 6.3 million to 7.1 million units globally according to IHS Markit estimates. -- Mark Fulthorpe Executive Director global light vehicle forecasting IHS Markit The situation in Q3 is undermined by some delay at Renesas. Though manufacturing capacity has been restored the ability to fulfil shipments may not be possible until September. We are also seeing 8/20/2021 Global light vehicle production impacts now expected well into 2022 | IHS Markit https://ihsmarkit.com/research-analysis/global-light-vehicle-production-impacts-now-expected-well-into.html 3/3 additional volatility due to COVID-19 lockdown measures in Malaysia where many back-end chip packaging and testing operations are performed. As this is more labor-intensive than the wafer fabrication processes activity is more easily affected by public health measures that impact workforce participation. In view of these developments we expect Q4 will be exposed to ongoing disruption and this disruption is now expected to spill over into Q1 2022. Q2 2022 may be the point at which we look for the stabilization of supply with recovery efforts now starting only from H2 2022.
Optimization of Bio-Foamed Concrete Brick Strength via Bacteria Based Self-Healing and Bio-Sequestration of CO2. Optimization of Bio-Foamed Concrete Brick Strength via Bacteria Based Self-Healing and Bio-Sequestration of CO2 Abdullah Faisal Alshalif 1* J. M. Irwan 1* Husnul Azan Tajarudin 2* N. Othman 3 A. A. Al-Gheethi 3 S. Shamsudin 4 Wahid Ali Hamood Altowayti 3 and Saddam Abo Sabah 1 Citation: Alshalif A.F. Irwan J.M. Tajarudin H.A. Othman N. Al-Gheethi A.A. Shamsudin S. Altowayti W.A.H. Abo Sabah S. Optimization of Bio-Foamed Concrete Brick Strength via Bacteria Based Self-Healing and Bio-Sequestration of CO2. Materials 2021 14 4575. https://doi.org/10.3390/ma14164575 Academic Editor: Alessandro P. Fantilli Received: 31 May 2021 Accepted: 3 July 2021 Published: 14 August 2021 Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Copyright: © 2021 by the authors. Licensee MDPI Basel Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https:// creativecommons.org/licenses/by/ 4.0/). 1 Jamilus Research Centre for Sustainable Construction (JRC-SC) Faculty of Civil Engineering and Built Environment Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia Parit Raja 86400 Johor Malaysia saddam@uthm.edu.my 2 Division of Bioprocess School of Industrial Technology Universiti Sains Malaysia Gelugor 11800 Pulau Pinang Malaysia 3 Micro-Pollutant Research Centre (MPRC) Faculty of Civil Engineering and Built Environment Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia Parit Raja 86400 Johor Malaysia norzila@uthm.edu.my (N.O.) adel@uthm.edu.my (A.A.A.-G.) wahidali@uthm.edu.my (W.A.H.A.) 4 Sustainable Manufacturing and Recycling Technology Advanced Manufacturing and Materials Center (SMART-AMMC) Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia Parit Raja 86400 Johor Malaysia shazarel@uthm.edu.my * Correspondence: faisalalshalif@gmail.com (A.F.A.) irwan@uthm.edu.my (J.M.I.) azan@usm.my (H.A.T.) Abstract: This research aimed to optimize the compressive strength of bio-foamed concrete brick (B-FCB) via a combination of the natural sequestration of CO2 and the bio-reaction of B. tequilensis enzymes. The experiments were guided by two optimization methods namely 2k factorial and response surface methodology (RSM). The 2k factorial analysis was carried out to screen the important factors then RSM analysis was performed to optimize the compressive strength of B-FCB. Four factors namely density (D) B. tequilensis concentration (B) temperature (T) and CO2 concentration were selectively varied during the study. The optimum compressive strength of B-FCB was 8.22 MPa as deduced from the following conditions: 10% CO2 3 × 107 cell/mL of B 27 ?C of T and 1800 kg/m3 of D after 28 days. The use of B. tequilensis in B-FCB improved the compressive strength by 35.5% compared to the foamed concrete brick (FCB) after 28 days. A microstructure analysis by scanning electronic microscopy (SEM) energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) and X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD) reflected the changes in chemical element levels and calcium carbonate (CaCO3 ) precipitation in the B-FCB pores. This was due to the B. tequilensis surface reactions of carbonic anhydrase (CA) and urease enzyme with calcium in cement and sequestered CO2 during the curing time. Keywords: self-healing CO2 capture CaCO3 precipitation Bacillus tequilensis carbonic anhydrase urease 1. Introduction Global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions have increased in recent decades in line with increases in anthropogenic activities. Therefore a great deal of research has been conducted to reduce the impacts of the catastrophic environmental issues due to CO2 emission such as global warming rising sea levels and climate change [1]. Fossil fuel combustion and cement manufacturing are the biggest contributors to CO2 emissions representing around 88% [2]. The process of producing one ton of cement emits around 900 to 1000 kg of CO2 due to the energy required to burn limestone [34]. Between 2005 and 2015 cement production increased worldwide by 79.5% i.e. from 2284 to 4100 Mt/yr [24]. For this reason various studies on concrete technology have focused on reducing cement production by using alternative materials [56]. However the demand and production of cement continue to increase resulting in increased global emissions of CO2. Furthermore most of the replacement materials used in concrete reduce its strength.
Sun Chemical to Increase Prices on Inks Coatings and Adhesives in Latin America. Sun Chemical to Increase Prices on Inks Coatings and Adhesives in Latin America Higher raw material and transportation costs lead to price increases. RELATED CONTENT 07.26.21 Due to a combination of raw material and transportation cost increases Sun Chemical will increase prices on its inks coatings and adhesives in Latin America. “Continued pressure in the raw materials market has forced us to increase prices in Latin America said Fernando Tavara President Sun Chemical Latin America. “As we expect this environment to continue throughout the rest of the year our main priority is to mitigate any disruption this may have on our customers and continue providing world-class support throughout these challenging times.
Profile extruder Barrette expanding in Bulls Gap Tenn.. Barrette Outdoor Living Inc. plans to add 162 employees to its Bulls Gap Tenn. workforce of 700 and expand its manufacturing space there by 40000 square feet state officials say. The company which makes vinyl aluminum and steel fencing and railing composite decking and other exterior products will invest $33 million in the expansion which will include four new extruders coextruders cooling tanks and fabrication and packaging equipment. Barrette is one of the top five employers in Hawkins County and the new jobs will have a tremendous impact in the area Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bob Rolfe said in a recent news release. This expansion is just the latest in Barrettes growth spurt. The company announced in February it was upgrading its Plant City Fla. facility to double its production of vinyl fencing. It is also doubling its intake of discarded PVC to 4 million pounds this year used to recycle into new products. Barrette said at the time that it would add an extruder and fill 38 new positions. In January the Middleburg Heights Ohio-based company announced that its DuraLife unit would double its polypropylene and wood composite decking production this year at its Biddeford Maine facility. The company planned to add extruders and other equipment and expand the workforce there by 30. Barrette entered the decking market with its 2018 purchase of DuraLife and its 100000-square-foot manufacturing and warehouse site in Biddeford. Barrette Outdoor Living employs more than 2000 people at 10 locations throughout the United States and at a distribution facility in Canada. It announced in November it was taking on investors. The company now is majority owned by TorQuest Partners Inc. a Toronto-based manager of private equity funds and Quebec Deposit and Investment Fund (Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec/CDPQ) a long-term institutional investor. Retaining a significant minority share are Les Entreprises Barrette Ltée and a management team headed by CEO Jean desAutels.
Ohio-based recycler Evergreen gets $5M infusion to support expansion. An Ohio plastics recycler is getting a multimillion-dollar investment from the beverage industry to help fund its growth. Evergreen Plastics Inc. of Clyde Ohio is receiving $5 million from the American Beverage Association and the Ohio Beverage Association in conjunction with the Closed Loop Fund to help finance a previously announced $22 million expansion project. Half of the $5 million comes from the associations through the Every Bottle Back initiative while the other half comes from Closed Loops Infrastructure Fund and will help Evergreen double capacity by next year. This investment helps Evergreen evolve its business model expanding its services to process recycled PET plastic into food-grade recycled [recycled PET] pellets used to manufacture new bottles while creating a strong local market for recycled plastics according to an announcement of the funding. Most recent estimates released as part of the funding announcement indicate the expansion will process at least 58 million pounds of food-grade recycled PET during the first year of operation. At least 600 million pounds of recycled PET are expected to be created over 10 years. Recaptured PET will be processed into food-grade recycled pellets that can then be used to create new bottles. To build a truly circular economy and meet the demand for food-grade recycled content bottle-tobottle recycling is critical Closed Loop Partners CEO Ron Gonen said in a statement. This investment in Evergreen helps strengthen the market for recycled plastics and inspire other local markets and states to participate in building a waste-free future. Evergreen is pleased to partner with the Ohio Beverage Association and Closed Loop Partners to expand our Clyde recycling and manufacturing facility and accommodate the heightened demand for rPET said Omar Abuaita CEO of Greenbridge the parent company of Evergreen. This expansion project will double our manufacturing capacity of food-grade rPET and create new jobs while building on our companys commitment to recycling sustainability and closed loop solutions. Evergreen earlier this year announced plans to expand by adding a new 54000-square-foot building adjacent to its current 238000-square-foot location in Clyde. Every Bottle Back now has provided finding for 10 projects totaling $10.6 million. Those projects in total are expected to capture an additional 647 million pounds of PET over 10 years. Every Bottle Back backed by Coca-Cola Co. Keurig Dr Pepper and PepsiCo Inc. seeks to back efforts to capture more used PET bottles for use in making new bottles. Closed Loop Partners describes itself as investment firm funded by venture capital growth equity private equity and project-based financing to support a circular economy. Greenbridge originally established in 1998 to recycle PET into strapping is now one of the nations largest PET recyclers. The company processes more than 2 billion bottles each year at locations in Clyde and Riverside Calif. The company formerly called Polychem Corp. was acquired by private equity firm The Sterling Group in 2019.
Michelman Invests in Regulatory and Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Expertise. CINCINNATI - Michelman has hired two new associates to lead EH&S and Regulatory Compliance and Product Stewardship. Michelman reports that it remains committed to its Triple Bottom Line of People Planet & Profit. The safety and well being of its global associates are the company’s top priority. Additionally Michelman is focused on being at the forefront of planet-positive change by advocating for and anticipating the impact of regulatory policy changes on its stakeholders. Jon Hunter is Michelman’s new Director Global Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) responsible for global EH&S strategic leadership oversight and team development. Hunter has recently been at Harsco Corp. as North American EH&S Director and Global Environmental Director. He has over 20 years of experience leading and managing EH&S at Harsco Eaton Corp. Honeywell and Delphi. Sonia Razzaque has been appointed the new Vice President of Regulatory Compliance and Product Stewardship. She will lead the company’s global Regulatory team to assure integration between product regulatory compliance product stewardship product management and supply chain. She joins Michelman from Celanese where she was the Senior Director Global Product Stewardship. Razzaque has spent most of her 20+ year career in regulatory compliance and product stewardship including leadership roles at Nexeo Solutions Huntsman Corp. Americas Styrenics LLC and The Dow Chemical Co. Jason Wise Michelman’s Chief Financial & Risk Officer said “Our industry’s acceleration in safety environmental and product regulations continues to create a level of uncertainty throughout the entire value chain. Jon and Sonia will lead our global teams to anticipate these changes and understand their impact on our associates customers suppliers and other stakeholders. We’re privileged and excited to welcome them to the Michelman team. Learn more about Michelman at www.Michelman.com.
North American resin prices all over the map in July. July brought a little of everything for North American resin markets — higher prices lower prices and flat prices. Higher prices were seen for polyethylene polypropylene and PET bottle resin. A 5-cent PE increase was delayed by negotiations between suppliers and buyers and by differences reported by widely followed price indexes. Most buyers contacted by Plastics News indicated that the 5 cents had taken hold by late July or early August. PE demand has remained very strong with some grades of high density PE for injection molding in especially short supply according to market sources. PE supplies also were tightened when LyondellBasell Industries lost several days of production in La Porte Texas after a July 27 acetic acid leak killed two workers and injured 30. But supplies of other grades of PE were improving and sources said a number of buyers were burned out and frustrated after absorbing multiple rounds of price hikes in the last 18 months. Regional prices for all grades of PE were up 5 cents in June. Most PE prices are up 43 cents so far in 2021 and 63 cents since January 2020. HDPE prices are up 2 cents less than low and linear low density PE. The July price hike was the eighth consecutive for the PE market. The 2-cent PP move followed a similar increase in prices for polymer-grade propylene (PGP). The increase is far less than Junes 12-cent hike and the 13-cent increase in May. Factoring in previous increases and decreases PP prices are up a net of 68.5 cents since December. Regional PP makers had attempted to add 5 cents of margin improvement to the 2 cents in monomer movement but were unsuccessful. Market sources said producers now will try to win that 5 cents in August. Sources added that North American PP demand remains strong from many end markets and supply has improved somewhat. Suppliers are continuing to recover from the ice storm that hit Texas in February and knocked out almost 90 percent of North American PP production for several days. U.S. PP operating rates in June were estimated at around 96 percent the highest for the industry in 14 years sources said. In PET prices were up an average of 2 cents per pound in July after being flat for the previous two months. Prices are now up 14 cents so far in 2021. Market sources said PET prices in July were affected by higher prices for purified terephthalic acid (PTA) and monoethylene glycol (MEG) feedstocks. PET prices in August could be affected by the same fatal incident at LBI in July. Lower prices were seen for polystyrene in July. Prices tumbled 10 cents after sliding 8 cents in June. PS prices again followed benzene feedstock which is used to make styrene monomer. Even with those declines PS prices in North America are up a net of 22 cents so far in 2021. Benzene prices in July were down 99 cents to $3.09 a gallon a slide of more than 24 percent vs. June. Market sources said the reopening of restaurants may be having a negative impact on demand for takeout containers cutlery and other PS products. Regional PVC prices were flat in July after rising 1.5 cents in June. That hike was only half of a 3-cent move that producers were trying to make. They were unsuccessful in getting the remaining 1.5 cents in July. Prices for the material were up 3 cents in May and have increased 22.5 cents so far in 2021 and a net of 38 cents since January 2020. The construction market which accounts for around 60 percent of U.S./Canadian PVC demand has been particularly strong in 2021. U.S. housing starts were at an annual rate of 1.64 million for June according to the Census Bureau. That number is up 6.5 percent vs. May but up almost 30 percent vs. June 2020 as the COVID-19 pandemic impacted construction activity. In feedstocks West Texas Intermediate oil began July at $73.50 per barrel and fell below $66.50 midmonth before recovering to close the month at $73.95 for an overall increase of less than 1 percent. Prices for natural gas used as a feedstock in North American PE and PVC began July at $3.65 per million British thermal units and grew to $3.91 by the end of the month an increase of almost 7 percent. Lower prices were seen for polystyrene in July. Prices tumbled 10 cents after sl
Flint CPS Continued Concern over Rising Cost Reduced Availability of Raw Materials for Inks. Flint CPS: Continued Concern over Rising Cost Reduced Availability of Raw Materials for Inks Flint CPS has been faced with cost increases across the entirety of its supply chain. RELATED CONTENT 07.27.21 Flint Group Commercial Publication and Sheetfed Inks (CPS) is a leading supplier of web and sheetfed inks to the global printing industry manufacturing coldset heatset and sheetfed inks across its multiple global sites. Along with many other suppliers Flint CPS has been faced with cost increases across the entirety of its supply chain. “2021 has been a challenging year for manufacturers across the commercial and packaging print supply chain with increased raw material costs influenced by both material and transport availability said Tony Lord president of Flint CPS Inks. “The stark increase in the cost of raw materials for ink manufacturing has already had a dramatic impact on our industry and there seems to be no end to the ongoing raw material availability crisis. During the first half of 2021 Flint CPS worked with its customer base to address the challenging market conditions and were hopeful that moving towards the end of 2021 some stability would have returned to the market place. Unfortunately Flint CPS is yet to see any improvements in the availability of raw materials which coupled with the strains on global transport and logistics continues to drive costs upwards. “Flint CPS’ operational and procurement teams continue to work tirelessly to mitigate the multiple increases that are being imposed on our business to ensure that our cost base is at its optimum however it is certain that as costs continue to increase in such a way our business will not be able to absorb them in their entirety Lord concluded.
In Case You Missed It PLASTICS CEO Says There s No Substitute for Plastics. PLASTICS’ Radoszewski: There’s no substitute for plastics By Eric Taylor The first synthetic polymer was invented in 1869 by John Wesley Hyatt. It was created as a material substitute for ivory and its life-saving importance has grown exponentially ever since. Today rather than saving only the lives of elephants it helps power homes keeps food safe to eat strengthens roads and bridges and makes cars more fuel efficient. Its countless medical applications have also dramatically improved health and extended life expectancy. Plastics literally save lives said Tony Radoszewski president and CEO of the Plastics Industry Association (PLASTICS). Despite its incredible value and modern ubiquity there are still many challenges faced by the supply chain. As an industry we face a flat-out false media narrative leading to bad policy he said. A key responsibility of PLASTICS is to unflinchingly educate the public on the countless positive contributions plastics make to society. PLASTICS was founded in 1937 to support the entire plastics supply chain by educating policymakers and the public alike on those positive contributions. The association provides its almost 1000 members with market research to arm them for combating the incorrect narratives like the misinformed environmental criticisms aimed at plastics. Attacks on plastics are wrong Radoszewski asserted. Plastic is important to virtually every human activity today including environmental conservation. Plastics save time money and energy because theyre affordable convenient strong durable and environmentally friendly as lifecycle analyses show. For example by replacing heavier and more energy-intensive materials such as iron and steel plastic saves on the tremendous costs of replacement and repair due to its extended lifespan. Corroding metallic pipes result in an annual loss of approximately 17 percent of all water pumped in the U.S. and more than $50 billion a year in maintenance and replacement he said. Plastic piping can last more than a century and plastic insulation saves 40 times the energy required to make it.
Chemours Shows Progress on Sustainability Efforts. Chemours Shows Progress on Sustainability Efforts August 4 2021 KEYWORDS specialty chemicals / sustainability Order Reprints No Comments WILMINGTON DE – The Chemours Co. recently announced strong progress towards achieving its long-term sustainability goals with the launch of its annual Corporate Responsibility Commitment (CRC) report. This year’s report lays out the work Chemours is doing around the world to deliver against its 10 ambitious goals that relate to three pillars — Inspired People Shared Planet and Evolved Portfolio — and map to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). This year’s report titled Resilient and Responsible is based on Chemours 2020 achievements while operating through a challenging year in which the world responded to the COVID-19 global pandemic. It highlights actions by the company’s 6500 employees to operate safely and supply essential chemistry during the pandemic the introduction of a more ambitious climate goal expanded actions to foster an even more inclusive equitable and diverse workplace and continued support for the communities and organizations where the company operates. “The past year challenged every individual in this organization and I’m humbled and grateful for the commitment and courage our employees showed in order to safely serve our customers and support the communities where we operate said Mark Newman President and Chief Executive Officer of Chemours. “I’m proud of the progress our team continues to make while delivering our essential chemistry to the world responsibly. Select report highlights from the companys 2020 operations include: • Continued progress toward achieving the company’s goal to reduce air and water process emissions of fluorinated organic compounds by 99% or more by 2030 • Published the award-winning EVOLVE 2030 methodology and deployed it to evaluate 40% of the product portfolio with 37.5% of the company’s revenue coming from offerings that make a specific contribution to the UN SDGs • Released an enhanced emissions reduction goal committing to reduce scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) by an absolute 60% by 2030 putting Chemours on a path to net-zero by 2050 • Expanded the Future of Chemistry Scholarship (FOCS) globally and into an industry-wide initiative the Future of STEM Scholars Initiative (FOSSI) supporting underrepresented communities pursuing STEM degrees through scholarships internships and leadership development and • Established the Chemours COVID-19 Community Relief Fund to help protect the safety and health of local communities where Chemours operates. To date the Fund has supported over 140000 people in the United States alone. “Four years into our sustainability journey and in a year of great challenge we continue to demonstrate that we are a resilient and responsible industry leader said Sheryl Telford Chief Sustainability Officer and Vice President of Environment Health and Safety for Chemours. “We are conscious of our impact on the world and unafraid of pushing ourselves to achieve more. Our team is empowered by the understanding that we must continuously improve all aspects of our performance whether environmental or social to meet the needs of our customers stakeholders and the world.
Veka adding profile extrusion capacity in North America. Veka adding profile extrusion capacity in North America Fombell Pa. — PVC profile extruder Veka Inc. is adding capacity at its four North American plant locations. The Fombell-based company announced July 8 that it will invest more than $48 million in extrusion infrastructure over the two-year period of 2021 and 2022. In total 23 lines will be added across North America expanding both window and door profile extrusion and Veka Outdoor Living Products. We see excellent potential in working with our existing customer partners to take advantage of a strong market that promises to continue for the foreseeable future Joe Peilert president and CEO of Veka North America said in a news release. The company is also focused on hiring and retention which it said was critical in addressing a current bottleneck affecting most building products manufacturers. Veka said it has significantly raised entry wages and that existing team members will receive their second increase within eight months starting July. ADVERTISING While we believe availability of raw material components will be tight through the end of the year we see labor availability as an ongoing issue Peilert said. Parent company Veka AG is based in Sendenhorst Germany. Veka North America ranked No. 23 in the most recently published Plastics News survey of North American pipe profile and tubing extruders. The company posted 2020 North American profile sales of $255 million up from $215 million in 2019. It employs 868 and has 130 extrusion lines.
Unilever reports strong half-year bolstered by double-digit ice cream growth. 22 Jul 2021 --- Unilever is declaring a “strong performance in its half-year 2021 results highlighting a boom in its e-commerce business and steady growth in its Foods & Refreshments segment. Despite sales not yet returning to pre-pandemic levels innovation and marketing in ice cream brands Ben & Jerry’s and Magnum have produced double-digit growth. The results come during a time of cost inflation and volatility caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which has restrained turnover for food sales in most markets. Unilever’s overall sales growth was 5.4 percent with 4.0 percent in volume and 1.3 percent in price. Price growth stepped up in Q2 with turnover increasing 0.3 percent including a positive impact of 1.4 percent from acquisitions net of disposals and a negative impact of 6.1 percent from currency-related items. The company’s e-commerce business grew 50 percent now representing 11 percent of its total sales. However underlying earnings per share were down 2.0 percent including a negative impact of 6.3 percent caused by currency.
SONGWON and SABO Extend Partnership. SONGWON and SABO Extend Partnership The extended cooperation will allow the companies to focus on opportunities outside of Europe particularly in automotive and agricultural applications and in the building and construction sector. July 14 2021 KEYWORDS additives / distributors / general business Order Reprints No Comments SONGWON Industrial Co. Ltd. recently announced that the worldwide exclusive distributorship (non-exclusive for Europe) with SABO S.p.A. for the SABOSTAB® HALS portfolio which includes hindered amine light stabilizers (HALS) and oxanilide UV absorbers has been extended. According to the company furthering the cooperation will enable both organizations to maintain their market position and to continue pursuing their shared strategy for growth by focusing on opportunities outside of Europe particularly in the areas of automotive and agricultural applications as well as in the building and construction sector. “Over the years the close collaboration between SONGWON and SABO is a fine and unique example of what can be achieved when two market leaders with a common mindset and shared values are driven by their deep joint commitment to respond to the demands of the industry and to the needs of their global customers said Elena Scaltritti leader Group Commercial for SONGWON. “We look forward to building on our already strong partnership and generating further growth and success for both organizations.
New Test Method Identifies Gas Formation in Molding. Engineering thermoplastics supplier Polyplastics has developed a testing method that identifies gas formation during injection molding and ultimately can help reduce mold deposits. Dubbed Gas Investigation Method in Injection Molding (GIMIM) the concept entails the addition of gas traps at each stage of molding: plasticization metering and injection. Once captured gas chromatography mass spectrometers (GC/MS) are used to qualitatively and quantitatively analyze the gases produced in the various plasticization stages. The high speeds temperatures and pressures of injection molding can lead to the deterioration of plastic additives and the subsequent release of decomposition gases. Mold deposits gas burns and short shots caused by pyrolysis gas create quality issues and higher defect rates. Polyplastics lays out the negative cycle offgassing can create where the presence of mold deposits gas burns and short shots leads to the installation of larger vents on the tool. These larger vents can lead to flashing forcing the vents to be reduced in size which once again creates gas issues within the tool. GIMIM makes it possible to measure high-molecular-weight substances that can cause mold deposits. Since this method directly analyzes gases that are formed inside the mold during filling the company believes it yields results that are closest to real-world conditions. Prior to GIMIM ascertaining the source and output of pyrolysis gas largely fell to two methods neither of which captured the actual conditions in the tool. One method involved heating pellets and analyzing the resulting volume and composition of decomposition gases. The other technique involved running a tool and material and then analyzing the resulting mold deposits that adhered to the mold. In its research Polyplastics specifically looked at physical and chemical adsorption where in the former mold deposits are adsorbed to positively charged metal surfaces and in the latter electrons are shared between surface layer atoms in covalent bonds and hydrogen bonds. In further research Polyplastics plans to examine other problems caused by pyrolysis g
Hempel Launches Hempafire Pro Coatings in Mexico. LYNGBY Denmark – Hempel announced that it has launched its Hempafire Pro range of passive fire protection coatings in Mexico Central America and the Caribbean. The products maintain the stability of steel structures in the event of a fire for up to 120 minutes to enhance building safety. Passive fire protection (PFP) coatings insulate steel during a fire which extends the steel’s load-bearing capacity and gives valuable extra time for evacuation and emergency response. Hempel’s Hempafire Pro PFP range consists of two intumescent coatings. Hempafire Pro 315 provides up to 90 minutes cellulosic fire protection and is optimized for 60 minutes. Hempafire Pro 400 provides up to 120 minutes cellulosic fire protection and is optimized for 90 minutes. Both coatings deliver very low loadings which can improve project efficiency. Hempel’s Group Product Manager Cellulosic PFP Roger Soler said “We’re very pleased to be launching our Hempafire Pro range in Mexico Central America and the Caribbean. The coatings help protect property and people during a fire and we believe they will be welcomed by building owners steel fabricators and contractors providing the same success as we have seen in Europe the Middle East and South East Asia. He continued “The coatings are very attractive for applicators and specifiers. The exceptionally low loadings help to reduce both total paint consumption and the number of coats required. This in turn means our intumescent coatings dry faster than similar coatings which helps to speed up project completion times. Both Hempafire Pro 315 and Hempafire Pro 400 come in two versions standard and fast drying and can be used for the most common steel profile types in both in-shop and on-site applications. The products are tested and approved under BS 476 20/21 and can be used in exterior conditions and corrosion environments up to C4 according to ISO 12944. In addition Hempafire Pro 315 is tested and approved under EN 13381 8/9. Hempafire Pro 315 and Hempafire Pro 400 are available in selected countries where BS 476 20/21 is accepted.
Bostik launches new offerings in high-performance specialty hot melt pellet powder web and film adhesive. Specialty hot melt rolls and granules offering. Photo Credit: Bostik Bostik (Colombes France) a global leader in adhesives for the construction consumer and industrial markets is aiming to increase its share of the global thermobonding market following the expansion of its specialty hot melts product offering. Having completed acquisition of Prochimir and Fixatti Bostik is redefining high-performance technical hot melts by launching new offerings in pellet powder web and film adhesives for use in automotive building transfer printing and textiles as well as other industries. The company aims to increase its leadership by utilizing its vertically-integrated resin formulation abilities and a unique global supply chain. “As today’s global society evolves placing more emphasis on sustainability and supply chain resilience our team of experts recognized the value that being a one-stop-shop specialty hot melt solution provider would bring to our customers says Guillaume Desurmont senior vice president at Bostik. “Our proud track record in providing customers with safe and sustainable solutions to address their adhesive problems will enable us to continue investing in the right resources and requirements to ensure we strengthen our position as the market leader in the Specialty Hot Melts space. We are committed to bringing customers the right thermobonding solution and supporting their innovation and reducing the environmental impact through our Specialty Hot Melts. Bostik’s new range of web film and powder adhesives is specifically adapted to each customer’s need and designed to enable clean production practices. “Following the acquisitions of Prochimir and Fixatti over the last two years we are not only in a position to offer customers the best of what all three organizations have to offer but also improve on the quality of product and service they receive notes Desurmont.
Flint Group Launches ONECode Solvent Based Inks and Coatings in Europe. 07.21.21 Flint Group Packaging Inks has enhanced its solvent-based range of inks and coatings for European customers. The new ONECode range is designed simplify the flexible packaging printing process reducing process waste and increasing ease in doing business. Under the ONECode brand we have built a new product hierarchy including six new brands says Kim Melander VP and GM for Packaging Inks Europe These ink systems developed to unlock the complex landscape of flexible package printing to connect clarify and bring transparency to the flexible packaging printing industry. “Flint Group Packaging Inks’ ONECode range will guarantee printers and converters innovative reliable and sustainable ink solutions that deliver the highest performance possible from your most simple to your most demanding applications Melander added. The ONECode portfolio incorporates VertixCode for flexo printing MatrixCode for gravure HelixCode for dual purpose inks (flexo and gravure) and ZenCode a recently launched range of sustainable solutions. Enhancing and complementing the portfolio are overprint varnishes and primers under the NexisCode brand name and additives under the AdmixCode brand. “These products designed for both current and new developments in printing processes and substrates adhere to global regulatory compliance requirements and are suitable for all flexible packaging applications said Thomas Strohe senior director product strategy and segmentation. ONECode offers a flexible solution enabling printers and converters to expand and flex their operations as these inks will always deliver high quality and consistent results. Importantly our development teams do not stand still – we are constantly innovating for our strategic segments and customers. After a detailed review of its solvent-based portfolio and the raw materials used in manufacturing Flint Group Packaging Inks combined its findings with customer insight to simplify and deliver a product offering that addresses printers’ current and future needs and their print aspirations. The ONECode brand encompasses a full range of innovation-driven printing inks coatings primers and additives developed by a global group of technical specialists working together as one team. Strohe said that printers and converters will realize multiple benefits when using our ONECode products. “With this simplified range of solvent-based inks we have been able to optimize our customer support with shortened lab response times. Furthermore customers can expect a reduction of inventories and lowered order quantities as we’ve been able to deliver less complexity with this ‘min-max’ system - a range that covers the maximum ground of applications with a minimum amount of products he added. “With standardized manufacturing processes across all production sites our teams are able to deliver consistent product quality time after time Strohe noted. “And finally with globalized procurement we are supported with a reliable supply chain with built-in contingency planning for raw materials and finished products. The rebranded solvent-based portfolio creates a new foundation for Flint Group Packaging Inks in Europe. Product codes will remain the same as the packaging industry starts switching over from Flint Group’s incumbent ink brands to the new ONECode portfolio. Key was connecting the products under one brand name – a simplified moniker that exhibits the company’s unified approach to packaging printers – standardizing the product range and making it easy to do business. While the launch of the ONECode range is rolling out now across Europe further global regions supplied by Flint Group including Latin America North America and others will introduce the ONECode framework to their customers in 2022.
Biden Administration Getting Serious about Plastics Ban. Proposed three-year ban on plastics production would “collapse the oil and gas industry causing major national economic damage according to Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH). Clare Goldsberry | Jun 01 2021 In case you haven’t heard the latest the Biden administration is getting serious about the plastic waste “crisis. According to an article in the Epoch Times “a three-year ban on plastics production is being pushed by congressional Democrats that would “collapse the oil and gas industry causing major national economic damage according to Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH). [Note from the editor: The Epoch Times is a rightwing media organization associated with the Falun Gong religious group.] The revelation came at an Energy Subcommittee Hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee as Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm commented that the Biden administration “supports a ban on hydraulic fracking for fossil fuels on all public lands in response to Rep. Johnson’s question. This comment came as a surprise to the subcommittee as the article noted that “Biden has previously said he only supports a temporary moratorium of fracking on public lands rather than a permanent ban. Rep. Johnson explained that “Section 902 of the Clean Future Act that is being pushed through the House and Senate by Democrats right now places a three-year moratorium on new permitting for plastics manufacturing. Section 902 of the Clean Future Act introduced on March 2 of this year “places a temporary pause on new permits for facilities that produce plastics or the raw materials used to produce plastics (such as ethylene and propylene) as well as facilities that repolymerize plastics into chemical feedstocks. Tony Radoszewski CEO of the Plastics Industry Association (PLASTICS) said in response at that time “Addressing climate change is a laudable goal but the Clean Future Act — as currently introduced — aims to end the manufacture of one of our country’s most valuable and sustainable materials — plastics. Multiple life-cycle analyses show that plastics are the most sustainable material in comparison to all existing alternatives including glass aluminum and paper. So there you have it folks just in case you’ve not heard of this scheme to further destroy the US economy. According to a 2019 analysis by the US Chamber of Commerce’s Global Energy Institute if the ban were enacted in 2021 “by 2025 it would eliminate 19 million jobs and reduce US GDP by $7.1 trillion. Job losses in major energy-producing states would be immediate and severe in Texas alone more than three million jobs would be lost. Tax revenue at the local state and federal levels would decline by nearly a combined $1.9 trillion as the ban cuts off a critical source of funding for schools first responders infrastructure and other critical public services. “Energy prices would also skyrocket under a fracking ban. Natural gas prices would leap by 324% causing household energy bills to more than quadruple. By 2025 motorists would pay twice as much at the pump for gasoline as oil prices spike to $130 per barrel. Rep. Johnson made a good point to Epoch Times reporter Mark Tapscott congressional correspondent for the newspaper when he noted that building electric vehicles — the darling of environmentalists — requires plastic. I’ll add to that by noting that every vehicle made requires plastic which has done much to reduce the weight of vehicles resulting in more miles per gallon.
Arkema expands Bostik US Adhesives business w Edge Adhesives Texas Acquisition. Colombes France) Arkema’s (Colombes) Adhesive Solutions segment has expanded its U.S. offerings in high-performance adhesives with the planned acquisition of Edge Adhesives Texas (Fort Worth) a complementary asset in hot-melt adhesives and pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes for residential construction. According to Arkema this new adhesives line can be used for fiberreinforced films and glass fiber mats although they are not applicable to manufacture prepreg. This project is in line with Arkema’s strategy of bolt-on acquisitions to develop greater breadth in adhesives and deliver new products to meet expanding demand. Edge Adhesives Texas is a leading developer and manufacturer of innovative adhesive solutions used in residential buildings with reportedly annual sales of around $12 million. The company which operates a plant in Fort Worth Texas has approximately 50 employees and specializes in custom formulations in fast-growing easy-install window door and roofing applications. Arkema itself is involved delivering composite solutions to the construction market. The company notes its innovative platform “Home efficiency and isolation which focuses its R&D on materials and solutions for sustainable construction. Projects are also conducted to respond to the UN’s sustainable development goal in particular SDG 11 to “make cities and human settlements inclusive safe resilient and sustainable. Arkema is also a strategic member of a partnership for a project involving the development of factorymanufactured modular construction using prefabricated composites and the company’s thermoplastic liquid resin Elium. Elium thermoplastic resin a product of Arkema’s research was selected for its combination of technical performance with polymer recyclability. Reinforced with glass fibers this resin has mechanical characteristics that comply with construction normative requirements it is also weatherproof resistant to UV radiation and fire resistant. In comparison to other resins used in composites Arkema says it is 100% recyclable (see “Arkemas partnership with ZEBRA project commits to circular economy). Thus at the end of their life the composite elements can be recycled either mechanically or chemically. In addition to delivering strong technological industrial and commercial synergies its acquisition of Edge Adhesives Texas will enable Bostik to offer its customers an extended range of value-added and sustainable solutions in hot-melt pressure sensitive adhesives. The deal is expected to close in Q2 2021.
Indorama invests over 50M in Alabama RPET Plant. Indorama Ventures Sustainable Solutions will install AMUT equipment at its Alabama RPET facility including delabeling equipment like the unit pictured above. | Courtesy of AMUT Indorama Ventures Sustainable Solutions is spending significantly to more than double the size and flake-production capacity of its Alabama PET recycling plant according to interviews and city documents. Crews are in the midst of assembling a new AMUT wash line at the expanded Athens Ala. facility which was known as Custom Polymers PET before Indorama purchased it in January 2019. The project will boost the plant’s annual food-grade PET flake capacity from 65 million pounds to 155 million pounds or an addition of 90 million pounds Byron Geiger chief operating officer for Indorama Ventures Sustainable Solutions told Plastics Recycling Update. Athens Ala. city documents indicate the total project cost is expected to be $51.5 million. Geiger said the expansion works toward Indorama’s global goal of recycling 750000 metric tons of post-consumer PET annually by 2025. “We see PET as the most recyclable plastic that’s out there he said “and we want to make sure that the capacity is there to support the demand of our customers. The world’s largest virgin PET manufacturer Indorama has been expanding its recycling footprint and produced 155586 metric tons of RPET flake in 2020 according to the company’s sustainability report. Its total plastic chemicals and fiber production was 13.72 million tons. For at least the past two years the Bangkok-headquartered company has touted its plans to invest substantial sums into expanding its recycling capabilities. Last week Indorama submitted the high bid of $63.9 million to acquire a Dallas PET recycling plant owned by processor CarbonLite which filed for bankruptcy in March.
Unilever to introduce recyclable toothpaste tubes. Consumer products giant Unilever will introduce new recyclable toothpaste tubes for several of its brands later this year part of a corporate mission to design only plastic packaging that is reusable recyclable or compostable. The tubes have been in development four years and will be available in Unilevers two biggest oral care markets: France and India. The brands partnered with multiple global packaging manufacturers including India-based EPL Global (formerly formerly Essel Propack) Amcor Huhtamaki and Dai Nippon Indonesia on the development of the new tubes and worked with formulation and flavor experts at Unilever to ensure quality and taste of the product were not impacted. Its been a long and challenging journey to get to this point but we hope this transformation will inspire the wider industry to also make the change said Samir Singh executive vice president global skin cleansing and oral care. Traditionally most toothpaste tubes are made from a combination of plastic and aluminium which gives the packaging its flexibility but also makes it difficult to recycle. Instead of aluminium the new tubes will use a material made mostly of high density polyethylene which has an existing recycling market. It will also be the thinnest plastic material available on the toothpaste market at 220 microns which will reduce the amount of plastic needed for each tube. When it comes to making oral care sustainable it has been challenging to develop a product that is recyclable without adding extra plastic to the tube said Alan Conner vice president for Europe at EPL. The design has been certified as fully recyclable within the standard HDPE recycling streams by RecyClass which sets the recyclability standard for Europe as well as approved by laboratories in Asia and North America. To encourage wider industry change the innovation will be made available for other companies to adopt. Recyclable tubes mark a key milestone in our packaging journey and more significantly they have the potential to transform the whole oral care industry. Together with our manufacturing partners were making the new design available to any producers interested in adopting the new material with the ambition to accelerate industry change said Babu Cherian who leads research and development for Unilever oral care packaging. Recyclability is one thing actually recycling the tubes is something else. Unilever is also working with global recycling organisations to help ensure that the new tubes are collected and recycled. The next step said Unilever will be the introduction of recycled content in the form of post-consumer recycled plastic into the structure of the recyclable tubes by 2022 in France and other European markets. This will significantly reduce the use of virgin plastic support the move towards a circular economy and lend further credence to Unilevers ambition to help collect and process more plastic packaging that it sells. The company also plans to convert its entire global toothpaste portfolio to recyclable tubes by 2025.
Total Cray Valley Industrializes Sustainably Sourced Krasol Diols. Adding to its sustainability portfolio Total Cray Valley is expanding its hydroxyl-terminated diene resin portfolio with the industrial introduction of sustainably sourced farnesene-based resins Krasol F3000 and Krasol F3100. The Krasol product line is a source of well-defined hydroxyl-terminated liquid poly(butadiene) diol and monol grades. These materials are used in a variety of end-use applications as components in urethane epoxy and UV-cured adhesive and sealant formulations for the automotive and electronic markets. The diene backbone incorporates hydrophobic quality and chemical resistance as well as elastomeric softness and low-temperature performance. The introduction of farnesene as a new monomer complements these qualities while reducing the viscosity of the products due to the unique “bottlebrush backbone structure of the poly(farnesene) resin. Krasol F3000 (and Krasol F3100 the fully hydrogenated grade) are linear diols with near quantitative hydroxyl termination. Based on Amyris sustainable BioFene monomer the feedstock is 100% renewable carbon sourced. “At the end of the day we are able to produce value not just through sustainable sourcing of the feedstock but by differentiating the product from other polymeric diols through unique structure/property relationships says Steve Henning Total Cray Valley’s innovation manager. The Krasol poly(farnesene) grades are now globally available in industrial quantities supplied by Total Cray Valley’s liquid poly(diene) plant in the Czech Republic.
Unilever Transforms Deodorant Package for People with Disabilities. Refillable packaging for the new Degree Inclusive deodorant is easy to open and apply for people with visual impairment and upper limb motor disabilities. Lisa McTigue Pierce | May 13 2021 As society becomes more aware of inequalities in life brands are acting to show they have heard and to show they care. One such example is the new Degree Inclusive deodorant from Unilever currently in trial. Degree Inclusive is the first deodorant product that comes in packaging specially designed for people with disabilities such as vision loss and missing or impaired upper limbs. People with limited arm mobility have trouble twisting a deodorant cap turning a stick or pushing down on a spray can — typical actions required with current packages. So Degree reached out to occupational therapists engineers consultants and designers from Wunderman Thompson — as well as getting input from people living with disabilities — to create an easy-to-apply deodorant package.
Shanghai calls to suspend transport of hazardous chemicals. Shanghai calls to suspend transport of hazardous chemicals By Yvonne Shi 22-Jun-21 10:14 SINGAPORE (ICIS)--Companies are required to suspend unnecessary transport of hazardous material from 20 June to 2 July according to a notice issued by Shanghai Road Transportation Development Centre. The regulatory body is calling to strengthen transportation safety controls in response to recent accidents including a gas explosion in Shiyan central China’s Hubei Province on 13 June. The regulatory body also said in the notice that companies should pay more attention to production safety. Chemical companies have not yet confirmed if they will cut or suspend operations according to market sources contacted by ICIS. Some traders said that goods would likely be unable to be shipped out of the factories during this period. Beijing is to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China from this weekend which is partly why safety measures have been tightened recently according to some industry insiders.
Climate change_ Large-scale CO2 removal facility set for Scotland - BBC News. A large facility capable of extracting significant amounts of carbon dioxide from the air is being planned for north east Scotland. The proposed plant would remove up to one million tonnes of CO2 every year - the same amount taken up by around 40 million trees. The extracted gas could be stored permanently deep under the seabed off the Scottish coast. But critics argue that technology isnt a magic bullet for climate change. Removing CO2 could spark big rise in food prices Stripes campaign started climate conversations Jet fuel from thin air: Aviations hope or hype? Whats the plan? This Direct Air Capture (DAC) plan is a joint project between UK firm Storegga and Canadian company Carbon Engineering. Its at a very early stage of development - todays announcement is the beginning of the engineering and design of the plant. A feasibility study has already been carried out and if everything goes well the facility would be operational by 2026. Storegga say up to 300 jobs would be created in the construction phase. However there are many hurdles including planning and finance - and a site for the plant wont be selected until next year. If it does go ahead it would be the biggest DAC facility in Europe and depending on the final configuration could be the biggest in the world.
Calcium for bitter pit_ Save it don t spray it _ Good Fruit Grower. A one-year study by Bernardita Sallato of Washington State University found that foliar sprays and soil amendments may do little to reduce the incidence of bitter pit one of Honeycrisp growers’ most vexing problems. 6/24/2021 Calcium for bitter pit: Save it dont spray it | Good Fruit Grower https://www.goodfruit.com/calcium-for-bitter-pit-save-it-dont-spray-it/ 3/5 Related: Sallato: Calcium deficiencies in fruit Related: Elemental questions about calcium and potassium Washington State University extension specialist Bernardita Sallato suspects some growers may waste money on calcium foliar sprays and soil amendments aimed at boosting calcium to reduce bitter pit in Honeycrisp. After a year of sampling two Honeycrisp sites she found little difference in bitter pit incidence in apples treated with various products — cheap and expensive — and sometimes not much difference between the treatments and the untreated control. “From this one-year trial it appears that prophylactic applications of calcium are ineffective for reducing (bitter pit) she wrote in her final report to the Washington Tree Fruit Research Commission which funded her $13000 single-year project. Calcium doesn’t move through a plant efficiently especially as the season progresses. Development of bitter pit a disorder caused by calcium deficiencies in the fruit can be associated with many growing factors including tree age rootstock vigor and crop load. Washington soils typically have plenty of calcium and bitter pit has more to do with uptake problems that should have been addressed earlier in the year Sallato said. She measured bitter pit incidence at harvest and in storage after treating apples with three foliar sprays and three soil applications. Among the treatments there were no significant differences. Only two of the foliar sprays calcium carbonate and calcium nitrate had success in reducing bitter pit after storage at Sites 1 and 2 but not to a level that was statistically different from the control. At Site 2 soil-applied calcium sulfate or gypsum improved fruit firmness but did not boost calcium levels in tissue samples or impact bitter pit incidence. The treatments had no measurable effect on calcium in the tree leaves fruit flesh or peels. None of those measurements correlated with bitter pit incidence anyway suggesting calcium levels alone are poor predictors. Also interestingly none of Sallato’s test treatments of 12 pounds of actual calcium per acre changed bitter pit incidence from the grower-managed areas of the orchard where they used 200 or 400 pounds per acre. Thus she thinks that in both of these sites the soil had plenty of calcium and the added products did little to prevent bitter pit. The results though from only one year line up with what she has studied about calcium uptake her entire career and with previous literature Sallato said. Growers would do better to try to address the problem in the roots soil or overall management of vigor and crop load Sallato said. There must be a reason why trees aren’t getting enough calcium in a growing region with a lot of calcium already in the ground. She’s not ready to abandon the supplements completely though. Sometimes calcium applications may be the only option if the problems causing disorders are not fixable or management of the problem would require several years — for example: soils that remain cold during spring or have excessive levels of potassium. 6/24/2021 Calcium for bitter pit: Save it dont spray it | Good Fruit Grower https://www.goodfruit.com/calcium-for-bitter-pit-save-it-dont-spray-it/ 4/5 April 27th 2021 | Apples April 15th 2021 Issue Crop management Diseases Ross Courtney Soil nutrition About the Author: Ross Courtney Ross Courtney is an associate editor for Good Fruit Grower writing articles and taking photos for the print magazine and website. He has a degree from Pacific Lutheran University. -- Follow the author -- Contact: 509-930-8798 or email. One Comment Paolo Sanguankeo May 11 2021 at 5:37 pm - Reply Just speaking from 10 years of experience in doing calcium trials. If bitter pit problem is really bad (40%+ cull) it’s a compound problem that’s not possible to correct with just foliar calcium alone. But if the problem is marginal foliar calcium can add bins more packable fruit on every acres. With some understanding of critical ratios of nutrients in fruit it’s easy to see where the fine line is and how small move of calcium concentration can help. Even growers admit they sometimes use calcium amendments as insurance she said figuring the cost of applying it is cheaper than the risk of a low packout.?
Gummies and functional foods for beauty_ Experts discuss trending applications and delivery formats. Gummies and functional foods for beauty: Experts discuss trending applications and delivery formats 23 Jun 2021 --- Functional foods gummies powders and tablet delivery formats are trending within the beauty supplements space. NutritionInsight continues its conversation with experts from ADM Rousselot Gelita Evolva and Lubrizol Life Science who discuss popular NPD formats and potential synergies of supplements with topical applications. “A lot of people are struggling with ‘pill-fatigue’ and others are having a harder time with traditional formats says Florencia Moreno market analyst Rousselot Health & Nutrition. “We are noticing that many tend to opt for functional gummies with key properties like easy to swallow tasty and generally a more pleasurable way to consume supplements thanks to their shape texture and flavor possibilities she adds. Isabel Gómez global marketing manager nutraceutical ingredients for Lubrizol Life Science says that although traditional capsules continue to lead the market new formats are being created to make supplements more conveniently consumed. “However to successfully manufacture nutraceuticals in any of these delivery formats the stability of the ingredients must be considered. Microencapsulated ingredients are compatible with most trending nutraceutical applications she notes. Enjoyable delivery Today’s dietary supplement consumers prefer capsule or tablet formats with 66 percent of consumers saying they use them says June Lin global vice president of Marketing Health & Wellness at ADM. However new and innovative formats are also seeing increased attention. Already 27 percent of consumers are using jellies or gummies and 22 percent are using chewable formats Lin adds. “As consumer preferences for dietary supplement formats change the constant is in their need for products deemed affordable high in sensory appeal and formulated with ingredients that they find to be the best for meeting their specific requirements. “The strongest growth for any delivery form in the last years is chewables. like functional gummies. They are gaining in popularity as a rising number of consumers are increasingly valuing indulgence and convenience Moreno supports. According to Marcia da silva Pinto senior technical manager Health Ingredients at Evolva the most popular delivery formats are those that provide consumers with a unique experience and stand-out online among the sea of me-too products. “Delivery technologies including capsules chocolates chews shots and of course the trendy gummies are supporting the market growth and expansion by converting new generations of consumers. Versatile ingredients available in different grades and various formats have for sure a competitive advantage. Functional foods for beauty While supplements remain the leading categories for food and beverage collagen applications functional foods and beverages have been emerging as a quickly developing market says Moreno. “These are attracting consumers who prefer fortified solutions to boost their nutrient and vitamins intake. Oliver Wolf head of global B2B marketing at Gelita says that hydrolyzed collagen which is easily digestible and highly bioavailable is a good candidate for functional beauty applications. “It can be incorporated into various types of liquid and solid functional food applications or nutricosmetics without compromising the sensory profile. Moreover it is free from e-numbers fat cholesterol carbohydrates and gluten and is non-allergenic. Potential applications range from collagen water and concentrated ready-to-drink liquid shots to tablets capsules and flavored powder mixes. Consumers are struggling with pill-fatique and others are having a harder time with traditional formats so gummies and jellies are proliferating. “Even luxury foodstuffs such as coffee and chocolate can be enriched with natural collagen peptides allowing for beauty care with a touch of great-tasting indulgence Wolf highlights. “Another interesting area with growth potential is combo products where collagen peptides are included with other active ingredients such as vitamins and minerals for multiple benefits. Synergy with topical applications Many big players in the cosmetic and personal care industry have adopted this holistic approach launching both topical and ingestible beauty products says Moreno. “There is an undeniable industry trend. This idea that oral and topical applications can complement each other in terms of achieving the optimal results could be possible. However we definitely need a lot more scientific research to determine if there is indeed a synergistic effect she flags. Géraldine Blanc head of marketing at Evolva says that while healthy skin is best achieved with adequate dietary intake of nutrients there is a place for ingestible skincare when there is adequate science to back up its claims. “With more scientific evidence being published around the role of microbiota composition on our overall health compounds that have a positive effect on its composition will be considered for NPD in the space of ‘inside out’ benefits. Topical and oral applications work in a different way but can both complement each other in their effect according to Wolf. “While topical applications like creams and lotions are targeting the upper layer of the skin and realize shortterm effects orally applied ingredients address the deeper layers and stimulate the metabolism to create a long term more sustainable effect he supports. Wellness and skin care converge Gómez claims that as the COVID-19 pandemic has had ranging consequences on overall health wellness and skin care are converging. “The potential is in the ability of companies in combining these two categories to create a super-beauty and wellness space dedicated to offer complete skin-body-mind balance solutions from the inside out. “To continue developing this growing market we expect to see companies pairing topical products and launching them in conjunction with ingestibles that pro
New label paper for a high-quality brand appearance. New label paper for a high-quality brand appearance Sappi expands its range of non-wet-strength wet-glue label papers with Parade Label Pro Sappi’s ‘Parade’ product family offers a sustainable and comprehensive range of wetglue label papers for a wide range of converting types and applications. The latest extension to the line is Parade Label Pro: a glossy one side double-coated label paper which features a very smooth surface with a high degree of brightness ensuring excellent printing and finishing results. • Non-wet-strength wet-glue label paper for a brilliant appearance • Suitable for various applications such as labels for disposable bottles food & nonfood containers and wrappers for various products • Available in grammages of 80 and 90 g/m² • Can be supplied quickly throughout Europe and beyond For customers in the food beverage and consumer goods industries who want their products to have a visual impact that stands out from the competition label papers from Sappi are the perfect choice as the new Parade Label Pro has been specially designed for the production of more sophisticated labels. It offers excellent machine running properties and ensures reliable production. It can be printed vividly in offset flexographic and gravure presses and finished with hot & cold stamping and blind embossing for example. Thanks to its special surface properties the double-coated glossy paper enables outstanding print results with maximum ink gloss. It is suitable for a wide range of applications such as wet-glue labels for disposable bottles labels for food and non-food containers and wrappers for chocolate bars and other products.
Heartland to Open Industrial Hemp Processing Facility in Holland - DBusiness Magazine. Heartland to Open Industrial Hemp Processing Facility in Holland Industrial hemp material supplier Heartland Industries which has its oces in Detroit is planning to open a lab-scale manufacturing facility in Holland southwest of Grand Rapids. An undisclosed amount of nancing for the new operation was secured from Bank of Ann Arbor. Heartland Industries is planning to open a lab-scale manufacturing facility in Holland southwest of Grand Rapids. // Photo courtesy of Heartland Industries Industrial hemp material supplier Heartland Industries which has its offices in Detroit is planning to open a lab-scale manufacturing facility in Holland southwest of Grand Rapids. An undisclosed amount of financing for the new operation was secured from Bank of Ann Arbor. The facility will process 1.5 million pounds of hemp per year providing hemp-based materials to manufacturers for product development. The facility is Heartland’s first and aims to be fully operational by summer 2021. With this facility seed secured for the 2022 planting season and a network of qualified farmers Heartland says it is on track to create the first reliable industrial hemp supply chain for U.S. manufacturers. This development will allow industrial hemp to move beyond R&D labs and into end products. “Michigan is the leading state for advanced manufacturing and companies from many industries are interested in finding the next sustainable material that will change their business says Jesse Henry founder and CEO of Heartland Industries. “Low-cost carbon-negative materials such as hemp have the ability to fill that need but are only viable with a consistent reliable supply chain. We developed our products with these qualities in mind to create North America’s first supply chain of hemp-based materials for a new generation of sustainable products. Throughout the last six months Henry says his team has made “huge leaps forward in securing interest from top companies in the automotive packaging marine aerospace and health care industries. The company’s industrial hemp products are intended to provide a sustainable bio-based By Tim Keenan - April 14 2021 Subscribe & Save Get DBusiness delivered right to your door with an exclusive 20% off and receive timely local business intelligence and insights all year round. Subscribe Now × 4/30/2021 Heartland to Open Industrial Hemp Processing Facility in Holland - DBusiness Magazine https://www.dbusiness.com/daily-news/heartland-to-open-industrial-hemp-processing-facility-in-holland/ 2/2 replacement for traditional reinforcing additives and fillers like fiberglass carbon fiber talc and calcium carbonate that are currently used in the plastics industry. By the end of 2021 Heartland plans to secure additional funding to begin construction of a flagship facility in Detroit. This larger facility will have the capacity to process more than 300 million pounds of industrial hemp every year to serve the growing demand for sustainable materials.
20 20 Custom Molded Plastics Expanding in Ohio Indiana. Structural foam molding specialist 20/20 Custom Molded Plastics Ltd. is adding equipment — including a massive 8000-ton press — and more than 100 jobs to its plants in Holiday City Ohio and Bluffton Ind. President Ron Ernsberger said business is very good with all end markets doing well. We are planning for double-digit sales growth again this year. With the new machines we have on order it will be 2023 until we see a year where we are running all of the machines he said in response to emailed questions. It is hard for me to understand. Material pricing is high and going up we cannot get enough employees raw material is being allocated and we are dealing with a pandemic. I only wish I knew what was driving demand today but we are very busy. The company which has a long relationship with machinery supplier Milacron is adding several big structural foam presses and also relocating some high-pressure presses Ernsberger said. All of the new equipment is from Milacron. The 225000-square-foot Holiday City headquarters plant is adding two 3000-ton high-pressure machines and one 8000-ton high-pressure machine this year and into 2022. The 375- and 500-ton high-pressure presses in Holiday City will be relocated to the 325000-square-foot Bluffton facility. In addition Bluffton will receive three new structural foam presses over the next 18 months. The 8000-ton machine is the largest machine of its kind ever built Ernsberger said. We currently employ about 440 people and we have openings for an additional 140 people at this time. The new equipment will add an additional 35 people. Ernsberger said the companys ability to grow is rooted in its goal to exceed customer expectations. As a custom molder we must constantly push the envelope to find ways to do things better faster and more economically. Delivering quality parts on time every time is key Ernsberger said. Growing the business is one thing but doing so while expanding our capacities and capabilities is another. Ernsberger said 20/20 posted 2020 sales in excess of $100 million. The expansion allows 20/20 to bring on new projects Executive Vice President Chad Adams said. We highly anticipate watching our teams at both locations grow. Our employees are a huge part of 20/20s success and we are forever in debt to them Adams said. The company has served the structural mold injection industry for more than 20 years. Ernsberger Chief Financial Officer David Rupp and David Blosser founded the company in the fall of 1999. We started the company with a new 37000-square-foot building two new Uniloy multinozzle lowpressure injection molding machines on 32 acres of land in Holiday City Ohio. It has been full speed ahead ever since Ernsberger said. Today we have over 750000 square feet under roof run seven low-pressure multinozzle injection molding machines and 13 high-pressure injection molding machines that includes the largest highpressure injection molding machine of its kind ever built he said.
Bedford Reinforced Plastics launches FRP structure line. ReadyRail configuration. All photo credit: Bedford Reinforced Plastics Bedford Reinforced Plastics (Bedford Pa. U.S.) a full-service supplier offering an extensive line of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) products and services announced on April 13 the launch of ReadySeries a quick-ship easy-to-install modular solution to meet access and safety structure needs. ReadySeries is said to be the first modular system of this magnitude made of FRP. Whether there is an area to climb or a space to span — or both — Bedford Reinforced Plastics says it can be handled quickly safely and affordably with ReadySeries. The system includes industrial platforms mezzanines walkways catwalks fixed ladders handrails guardrails stairs stair towers pedestrian bridges and more for far-reaching configurations. Each product can be used independently or can be combined with other products in the series. ReadyStairs configuration. All photo credit: Bedford Reinforced Plastics The company notes that industrial pre-engineered and prefabricated structures only need to be bolted together with ordinary tools for easy installation. If on-site adjustments are needed the FRP can be cut drilled and assembled with standard tools. The material is strong yet lightweight to enable easier transportation and installation. Bedford Reinforced Plastics notes that its ReadySeries products require minimal ongoing maintenance hold up to corrosive environments harsh weather and will not rust rot or corrode. They are dimensionally stable meaning components will not shrink swell warp or bow. Further the structures are OSHA compliant. Unlike wood and metal the company says ReadySeries FRP is fire-retardant non-conductive and has low thermal conductivity to prevent expansion and contraction to keep structures stable. Anti-slip coatings minimize fall and slip risks. Safety yellow coloring is available in all relevant components. ReadySeries products include: • ReadyPlatform: Ideal for industrial access platforms walkways mezzanines and catwalk applications that don’t require a custom build. ReadyPlatform materials are available in 3 x 3- foot increments and heights of 1-½ 3 4-1/2 and 6 feet. Customers can also add ReadyStair ReadyLadder or ReadyRail components to get their ideal configuration. • ReadyRail: Guardrail and handrail materials that can be used on their own or to complement ReadyPlatform products. They’re stocked in 3-foot sections and users are able to specify their railing run Bedford will package all components into a handy kit. • ReadyLadder: Customers can reportedly achieve the ladder height they need by combining sections available in 10-foot and 15-foot increments. Further if needed Bedford says customers can quickly trim one section with ordinary tools to get an exact fit or add a walkthrough for a complete system. • ReadyStair: Stair towers that can be adapt easily to almost any configurations. They fit in a 7- foot 5-1/4-inch x 12-foot 3/4-inch footprint rising in 6-foot increments between landings. When needed a short stretch of up or down stairs is provided for the final transition at the top. ReadyStair sections are also used in conjunction with ReadyPlatform materials to meet any configuration needed. • ReadySpan: The high-strength ReadySpan bridge components are available for pedestrian equestrian and light vehicle applications up to 100 feet long and 10 feet wide. Materials can be shipped in a kit to be assembled in the field in modules that require limited assembly or completely assembled. According to the company the range of sizes configuration versatility seamless compatibility and durability of the ReadySeries line make it ideal for indoor and outdoor applications. Further Bedford says operational savings and long-term reliability can be achieved.
AkzoNobel is stirring things up again with second global startup. Startups are about to explore a world of possibilities in the paints and coatings industry – Paint the Future’s second global startup challenge launches May 18. Led by AkzoNobel and powered by thousands of connections around the world Paint the Future has become the industry’s largest collaborative innovation ecosystem. All participating startups can look forward to accelerating their solutions in this dynamic industry by leveraging AkzoNobel’s passion for paint expertise knowledge resources and connections. Some will find even more doors opened for them in the form of exciting partnership opportunities and investments. “Our new company strategy is all about building on our strong foundation and pioneering ways to grow and innovate says AkzoNobel CEO Thierry Vanlancker. “That’s why it’s the perfect time for round two of our global startup challenge. We’re excited to see what potential collaborations the startups have in store for us that will help us bring surfaces to life for our customers. The 2021 programme builds on the success of the 2019’s Paint the Future launch event two regional startup challenges in Brazil and China two supplier programmes and other AkzoNobel collaborations. These programmes have already resulted in 18 successful solutions. “Paint the Future is our dedicated ecosystem designed to accelerate innovation in paints and coatings says Klaas Kruithof Chief Technology Officer. “Our first global startup challenge was a first for our industry and our ecosystem has grown amazingly since then to include 2137 active members. It’s a launch pad for great ideas that’s attracted a diverse group of startups suppliers academia and customers. 2021 programme details Startups will be invited to submit solutions addressing five challenge themes: • Enhanced functionality • Customer experience • Smart application • Circular solutions • Smart manufacturing and supply chain Following the May 18 launch exploration and enrichment of the submissions will continue through July 20. Then select finalists will be invited to a collaboration event in late 2021 where the challenge winners will be announced. Ready to paint the future with us? To join the ecosystem and find the latest information on the 2021 global startup challenge including the submission process vis
Huntsman Building Solutions Introduces CEU Courses on Spray Foam Continuous Insulation. Huntsman Building Solutions Introduces CEU Courses on Spray Foam Continuous Insulation Roofing Applications April 21 2021 KEYWORDS continuing education credit / continuous insulation (CI) / educational programs / Huntsman Building Solutions / SPF / spray polyurethane foam Order Reprints No Comments THE WOODLANDS Texas — Huntsman Building Solutions announced the launch of two new courses for design professionals. The continuing education offerings Spray Polyurethane Foam as a Continuous Insulation (CI) Solution and Improving Roof Performance with Spray Foam Insulation are both available through Architectural Record magazine’s Continuing Education Center. Each course is a nano-credit offering providing participants who complete one with 0.5 CEU credits. “Huntsman Building Solutions is dedicated to providing quality education that both matches and ensures the highest performance of our products said Doug Brady vice president of global innovation and product management for Huntsman Building Solutions. “These mobile-friendly on-demand courses are designed to provide knowledge pertinent to two of the most important topics relative to spray polyurethane foam and give architects the opportunity to continue their education while they are working from home or sitting anywhere from a parking lot to a waiting room. The first offering Spray Polyurethane Foam as Continuous (CI) Insulation provides instruction and knowledge surrounding the attributes benefits and advantages of closed-cell spray foam when it is applied as CI. Upon completion of this course architects will be able to define both types of foam insulation products — spray polyurethane foam (SPF) and rigid foam board — utilized for exterior CI project application understand the installation and performance advantages of SPF versus rigid foam board investigate the use of SPF to achieve multiple performance traits in one product including thermal air and water resistance and recognize the installed cost advantages of SPF as compared to rigid foam board. The second offering Improving Roof Performance with Spray Foam Insulation provides an overview of the thermal performance benefits of spray foam roofing as well as specific applications for the material. Participants in this course will learn how spray foam differs from traditional roof products the key benefits of specifying spray foam roofing for new construction performance attributes of the solution and why it makes sense to recover roofs with spray foam and the importance of certified and well-trained installers. Both courses are available free of charge to architects and are registered with AIA CES for continuing professional education. Credits earned upon completion of each course will be reported to AIA CES for AIA members. Certificates of completion for both AIA members and non-members are available upon request.
Huntsman Advanced Materials resin systems meet composite pressure vessel requirements. cording to Huntsman Advanced Materials (The Woodlands Texas U.S.) as hydrogen roadmaps and investments grow and enter new applications hydrogen storage in pressure vessels will become a critical enabler for wide-scale adoption and the subject of intensive research and development. To further this progress the company has developed the Araldite range for filament-wound composite pressure vessels. Encompassing high-performance epoxy acrylic polyurethane adhesives highperformance specialty epoxy and benzoxazine resin systems Araldite is said to be able to meet the stringent requirements for hydrogen storage. This includes pressure testing impact resistance chemical exposure and other temperature and pressure cycling tests and regulations. According to Huntsman while the pressure resistance of hydrogen vessels is mainly governed by the fiber reinforcement the resin matrix plays a key role in providing environmental exposure protection (thermal chemical impact) as well as fatigue/pressure-cycling resistance to withstand the filling and emptying cycles. Table 1 below shows three examples of high-performance epoxy-based systems that offer a combination of thermal resistance high mechanical strength high elongation at break and high fracture toughness. Resin system Araldite resin / Aradur 917-1 / Acc. 960-1 Araldite resin / Aradur 1571 / Accelerator Araldite LY3508 / Aradur 3478 Process Wet filament winding Towpreg filament winding RTM Cure cycle 2 hours 80°C + 2 hours 110°C 30 min 140°C 20 min 100°C + 2 hours 130°C Tg (°C) DSC midpoint ISO 120 132 115 Tensile strength (MPa) ISO 527 75 77 70 Fracture toughness KIc (MPa.m1/2) ISO 13586 1.58 1.55 1.7 In addition Araldite solutions for pressure vessels cover a range of manufacturing processes: wet filament winding is a well-established manufacturing method but increasingly resin transfer molding (RTM) and towpreg winding are considered in order to meet the need for increased productivity and greater part consistency. Huntsman Advanced Manufacturing further identifies the process features for each method which offer a range of options for composite pressure vessel manufacturing. For example wet filament winding is a well-established process which offers winding speeds of 1-2 meters per second at maximum and a range of winding angles. Towpreg filament winding is a clean process with fast winding speeds of >5 meters per second with controlled and consistent resin content variable winding speed (fast on hoops slower on domes) a range of winding angles and optimized winding patterns. The process also enables high reproducibility and short cure times (down to 30 minutes). Alternately the RTM process enables fast injection versus filament winding operations fast cure in the mold (20 minutes) and is ideal for small-sized vessels. RTM also ensures high laminate quality (low porosity content) high investment (braiding molds press dosing equipment) and higher resin content than towpreg and filament winding. Building on a strong experience in natural gas pressure vessel technology Huntsman Advanced Materials adds that it can offer a comprehensive range of epoxy resin systems that address the emerging challenges and manufacturing requirements for hydrogen storage. In addition expertise in material characterization and process simulation offer a powerful tool to accelerate product development and optimize manufacturing leading to increased part quality and minimum production cycle times.
Sherwin-Williams Launches Echelon. Anthony Locicero Associate editor04.20.21 Sherwin-Williams released Echelon – a hyper-durable product line for metal building products that the company said provide exceptional UV and weathering resistance. As part of the Syntha Pulvin powder coatings series Echelon coatings deliver excellent long-term aesthetics require minimal maintenance and can be easily cleaned according to Sherwin-Williams. “The new Echelon product line is designed to meet the AAMA 2605 performance specifications and has been proven durable through rigorous Florida exposure testing said Christophe De Paepe Sherwin-Williams Building Products segment manager. “It provides excellent gloss retention and resistance to chalking and color fading for metal building products. Sherwin-Williams also announced a new addition to its Syntha Pulvin color palette – a pigment platform that delivers darker blacks to accommodate customers seeking deep rich black color. All colors in the Sherwin-Williams Syntha Pulvin powder coatings portfolio are based on extensive color trend research according to the company. Additionally Sherwin-Williams launched color cards product data sheets and building information modeling (BIM) materials for each line of its Syntha Pulvin coating systems including Echelon which the company said explain the benefits and unique differences between each high-performance solution. The coating supplier also maintains an Approved Applicator Program – an established audit and testing program that ensures applicators meet company requirements and AAMA specifications when applying Syntha Pulvin coatings. The Sherwin-Williams technical service team works directly with applicators to guarantee the highest performance and appearance of the finished product according to the company. “We are further cementing our legacy in the building products market said De Paepe. “These unique product selection tools and specialized programs help to better serve our customers by providing guidance and support.
The whitest paint is here – and it’s the coolest literally. Xiulin Ruan a Purdue University Professor of Mechanical Engineering holds up his lab’s sample of the whitest paint on record. (Purdue University/Jared Pike) In an effort to curb global warming Purdue University engineers have created the whitest paint yet. Coating buildings with this paint may one day cool them off enough to reduce the need for air conditioning the researchers say. In October the team created an ultra-white paint that pushed limits on how white paint can be. Now they’ve outdone that. The newer paint not only is whiter but also can keep surfaces cooler than the formulation that the researchers had previously demonstrated. “If you were to use this paint to cover a roof area of about 1000 square feet we estimate that you could get a cooling power of 10kW. That’s more powerful than the central air conditioners used by most houses said Xiulin Ruan a Purdue Professor of mechanical engineering. The researchers believe that this white may be the closest equivalent of the blackest black “Vantablack which absorbs up to 99.9% of visible light. The new whitest paint formulation reflects up to 98.1% of sunlight – compared with the 95.5% of sunlight reflected by the researchers’ previous ultra-white paint – and sends infrared heat away from a surface at the same time. Typical commercial white paint gets warmer rather than cooler. Paints on the market that are designed to reject heat reflect only 80%-90% of sunlight and can’t make surfaces cooler than their surroundings. The team’s research paper showing how the paint works published last Thursday (April 15) as the cover of the journal ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces.
Optimizing EV battery pack assembly and design with experts from Henkel. Optimizing EV battery pack assembly and design with experts from Henkel Düsseldorf – As the automotive industry races towards an electrified future one of the key roadblocks to progress – cost-effective large scale battery manufacture – is being rapidly dismantled by breakthroughs in battery design and assembly. In a new LinkedIn livestream series experts from Henkel Adhesive Technologies share insights from the e-mobility market and the leading edge of battery assembly and design to take on any questions in an open discussion. As a thought leader within the value chain of this field Henkel has chosen this live format to create an additional platform to enhance and maximize direct and transparent interaction with customers industry partners and experts around the world to fuel the discussion on battery technology and production. The 5-part live talk series which launches on April 13th and will be moderated by Stefan Hoefer Global Market Strategy Head E-mobility at Henkel Adhesive Technologies will explore the opportunities and challenges in this area including improving charging performance enhancing safety optimizing assembly efficiency and techniques and solutions for protecting battery components to give Henkel’s thought-leader take on the topics. The challenge facing the automotive industry is unprecedented: with battery design for large volume commercial application transpiring for the first time. Hence the ability to costefficiently build batteries will be a critical differentiator for auto manufacturers. Battery costs are already dropping from 1000 US-Dollar per KWH in 2010 to 156 US-Dollar per KWH today1 . By 2030 projected cost could drop to 73 US-Dollar per KWH. In this first LinkedIn
US home-builder confidence edges up as demand remains strong. US home-builder confidence edges up as demand remains strong By Stefan Baumgarten 15-Apr-21 18:32 HOUSTON (ICIS)--US builder confidence in the market for new single-family homes improved slightly in April on strong buyer demand. Demand pushed confidence up even as builders continue to grapple with rising lumber prices and supply chain issues and as consumers face higher home prices due to a lack inventory the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) said on Thursday. The group’s housing market index (HMI) rose by one point from March to 83 in April. “Despite strong buyer traffic builders continue to face challenges to add much needed housing supply to the market said NAHB chairman Chuck Fowke. The supply chain for residential construction was tight particularly regarding the cost and availability of lumber appliances and other building materials Fowke said. While builders were seeking to keep home prices affordable the market needed more inventory and policymakers needed to find ways to increase the supply of building materials as the economy runs hot in 2021 he added. NAHB chief economist Robert Dietz said that while mortgage interest rates have trended higher since February and home prices continue to outstrip inflation housing demand appeared to be unwavering as buyer traffic reached its highest level since November. “NAHB’s forecast is for ongoing growth in single-family construction in 2021 albeit at a lower growth rate than realised in 2020 the economist said. In April the HMI index component gauging current sales conditions increased one point to 88 and the gauge charting traffic of prospective buyers posted a three-point gain to 75. The component measuring sales expectations in the next six months fell two points to 81. Looking at the three-month moving averages for regional HMI scores the Northeast rose six points to 86 and the South moved up one point to 83. The West held steady at 90 and the Midwest fell two points to 78. The housing market is a key consumer of chemicals driving demand for a wide variety of chemicals resins and derivative products such as plastic pipe insulation paints and coatings adhesives and synthetic fibres among many others. The American Chemistry Council (ACC) estimates each new home built represents some $15000 worth of chemicals and derivatives used in the structure or in the production of component materials.
LafargeHolcim to leave Brazil_ - Cement industry news from Global Cement. LafargeHolcim retained its ability to surprise this week with the news that it may be making preparations to leave Brazil. Local press in Minas Gerais revealed on 20 April 2021 that the company was about to try and sell its operations in the country. The building materials producer has not made a public statement yet on the matter it may not until a deal is done and/or this could all be a great big misunderstanding. So treat the following with caution. Firstly LafargeHolcim deciding to sell in Brazil fits with the selective approach increasingly shown by the non-Chinese cement multinationals in recent years. It famously decided to sell up in South-East Asia from 2018 and it got as far as divesting assets in Indonesia and Malaysia. It also tried to sell in the Philippines but the local competition commission didn’t give permission for the proposed deal in the end. As Global Cement Weekly mentioned at the time this was a bold move and doing the same in Brazil seems similarly decisive now. It’s a big market to leave! CRH and HeidelbergCement have both talked openly as well about taking a value-first approach to their divestment strategies rather than trying to retain blanket coverage. However just because a sale in Brazil by LafargeHolcim sounds right doesn’t mean it is right. Secondly data from the National Cement Industry Association (SNIC) shows that the Brazilian cement industry had a good year in 2020. Despite the relentlessly bad news from the coronavirus pandemic the Brazilian government decided to keep the economy mostly open allowing the cement industry to continue its recovery since 2018. The sector reported an 11% rise yearon-year in cement sales to 60Mt in 2020. So far in 2021 it has noted a 19% rise year-on-year to 15.3Mt in the first quarter of 2021. Yet the association forecast slower growth in 2021 as a whole and has warned that the first quarter figures in 2021 don’t show a true picture due to a decline in sales per working day so far in 2021 despite an apparent growth in absolute figures. On the surface it’s a good time to sell cement assets in the country since the sector has been riding a recovery but the general outlook for the country is looking gloomy especially considering the ongoing scale of its coronavirus outbreak and the uncertain damage this may do to the economy as a whole. Whether or not LafargeHolcim is actually selling up in Brazil or not it follows the conclusion of the CRH Brazil acquisition by Buzzi Unicem’s Companhia Nacional de Cimento (CNC) joint-venture that was also announced this week after approval by the completion authority. The assets that CRH Brasil has now sold include three integrated cement plants and two grinding plants in the south-east of the country. The subsidiary sold approximately 2.8Mt of cement in 2020. If nothing else this suggests that there should be companies out there pursuing a different strategy to LafargeHolcim CRH HeidelbergCement and the rest who will be only too happy to build their portfolio if LafargeHolcim’s Brazilian business does go on sale. CRH originally bought its plants in Brazil as part of a package deal when Lafarge and Holcim merged in 2015 and any potential sales by LafargeHolcim also link back to this. LafargeHolcim has spent much of the last six years working out what kind of company it wants to be. Certainly since the current chief executive officer Jan Jenisch took charge it has had the air of a company with a mission. The Firestone Building Products acquisition earlier in 2021 is an example of this propelling the group away from the triad of cement concrete and aggregates as the carbon risks of heavy building materials heat up. There is something fitting perhaps that at the company’s next annual general meeting its shareholders will be asked whether they want to change the company’s name to Holcim at the group level. It’s a small thing all market brands will remain as they are but it may bookend the post-merger era as much as asset divestments in Indonesia and... potentially Brazil
Graphic Packaging Holding Company Reports First Quarter 2021 Results Announces Intent to Acquire Americraft Carton Inc_. Net Sales were $1649 million versus $1599 million in the prior year quarter. Net Organic Sales increased 2% in the quarter driven by sustainability-supported innovative packaging solutions. Net Income was $54 million versus a loss of $13 million in the prior year quarter. Earnings per Diluted Share were $0.19 versus a loss of $0.04 in the prior year quarter. Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share were $0.23 versus $0.31 in the prior year quarter. Adjusted EBITDA was $240 million versus $295 million in the prior year quarter negatively impacted by $29 million of Winter Storm Uri related costs and $34 million of commodity input cost ination. Strengthened balance sheet and interest rate prole by issuing $800 million of 0.8% and 1.5% senior secured notes and through retirement of $425 million in higher interest rate debt with Farm Credit System term loan. Acquired $400 million of International Papers minority ownership interest in the partnership reducing minority ownership stake to approximately 7%. Global liquidity was $1444 million at quarter end. Announces intent to acquire Americraft Carton Inc. a leading independent folding carton producer in North America extending participation into new and existing end markets while continuing to increase paperboard integration rates. Graphic Packaging Holding Company (NYSE: GPK) (the Company) a leading provider of sustainable packaging solutions to food beverage foodservice and other consumer products companies today reported Net Income for rst quarter 2021 of $54 million or $0.19 per share based upon 277.2 million weighted average diluted shares. This compares to rst quarter 2020 Net Loss of $13 million or $0.04 per share based upon 288.9 million weighted average diluted shares. The rst quarters of 2021 and 2020 were negatively impacted by a net $11 million and a net $104 million of special charges respectively including a net $90 million non-cash charge related to the settlement of a U.S. pension plan in rst quarter 2020. The charges are detailed in the Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures table attached. When adjusting for charges Adjusted Net Income for the rst quarter of 2021 was $65 million or $0.23 per diluted share. This compares to rst quarter 2020 Adjusted Net Income of $91 million or $0.31 per diluted share. Michael Doss the Companys President and CEO said Consumer preferences for sustainable packaging are driving global demand for ber-based packaging solutions. We are meeting this demand by introducing new innovative products and supporting our customers as we answer? the calls from todays consumer. During the rst quarter we continued to deliver on our ambitious growth strategy increasing net organic sales by 2%. Our teams agility and resolve in executing on our commitments to customers coupled with the competitive advantages of our vertically integrated platform allow us to provide continuity of supply while managing a challenging supply chain environment. The underlying robust demand environment and resulting volume and pricing momentum we have coming out of the quarter are excellent and position us for a very strong second half of 2021. We are focused on capturing ongoing organic growth from the continued move to more circular and sustainable packaging alternatives and achieving our Vision 2025 for all stakeholders. Doss added Today I am very pleased to announce our intent to acquire Americraft Carton a company built on a long history of sustainability and exceptional customer service. Their business philosophy is aligned with how we lead our business. The combination extends our end markets and customer base further strengthening our position as the leading integrated paperboard packaging provider in North America.
Price are On the Rise In the Ink Industry. The past few months have seen a lot of pressure on prices supply and transportation primarily caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The printing ink industry is known for being reluctant to raise prices except when under pressure. However as can be seen in the announcements in Fresh Ink which begins on page 8 price increases have already been implemented and there is reason to believe more are coming. Interestingly the first announcement came from the European Printing Ink Association (EuPIA). These were quickly followed by statements from the National Association of Printing Ink Manufacturers (NAPIM) CEPE Sun Chemical Flint Group Siegwerk Doneck Network and others. There are plenty of raw materials involved. Crude oil supply is leading to tightening of petrochemicals a key feedstock in many ink ingredients. TiO2 and other pigments are a concern. So are vegetable oils due largely to weather conditions. EuPIA said “the increased cost of pigment raw materials tightening upstream petrochemical supply chains cost increases for vegetable oil derivatives and dramatically increased freight costs – due to the reduced availability of containers – are highlights of a myriad of destabilizing factors. “The printing ink industry in North America is facing unprecedented challenges in raw material feedstocks supplies and freight NAPIM executive director John Copeland noted. “Virtually all raw material families for the printing ink industry including oil energy curable solvent and water-based systems have been greatly impacted. Transportation is another issue entirely. I’ve talked with executives who tell me that they can’t get their products off of containers while other containers are stranded in ports. A few ink companies have formally announced price increases. Sun Chemical increased prices across a range of products including packaging and commercial sheetfed inks coatings and adhesives in North America and Latin America. Flint Group Packaging and Flint Group Commercial Publication and Sheetfed Inks (CPS) reported their own price increases. The combination of pricing and supply pressures as well as the transportation issues are not going to be alleviated anytime soon. The ink industry and its suppliers are doing what they can and will continue to work together with their customers to try to solve these issues as quickly as possible.
Erie Pa.-based molder Accudyn expands in-house tooling. Custom injection molder Accudyn Products Inc. is expanding its in-house tooling. The Erie Pa.-based company is adding 12000 square feet of space and plans to add equipment and hire more toolmakers. We source tools in China [South] Korea and Eastern Europe as well as with other domestic tool sources. But really over the past few years weve been seeing more opportunities to bring tooling work inside Don Stolarski the companys vice president of sales and business development said in a telephone interview. Certainly from Asia weve been seeing a lot of lead-time costs and shipping delays have been an issue. And certainly last year with COVID and tariffs Asian tools became much more challenging Stolarski said. The company was founded in 1998 by Tom and Peg Bly a husband-and-wife team who were both Erie natives. The pair met in 1983 when both worked at a local Johnson Controls Inc. plant. Before they founded Accudyn Tom was general manager of JCIs Engineered Plastics division.
Enhancing the properties of polymers - (Dow Imerys Covestro). Enhancing the properties of polymers 3 MARCH 2021 As we settle into 2021 we take a glance at how some of the leading players in materials science are continuing to address the need to improve the recyclability and functionality of packaging polymers. Victoria Hattersley spoke with representatives from Covestro Dow and Imerys. The wide variety of polymers on the market today go a long way to meeting our many and varied packaging needs. However as we know not all of them are as recyclable or recycled as others – whether because of their inherent properties the infrastructure isn’t there or because they consist of multiple layers that can’t be separated in existing recycling streams. At Packaging Europe we always try to keep on the pulse of ongoing developments in polymer research and innovation. In recent years we have seen clear recurring themes such as monomaterials biobased plastics and chemical recycling. Our industry experts today are all from companies involved in the packaging chain at the materials science level rather than packaging production itself. Here the focus is on 3/5/2021 Enhancing the properties of polymers - Packaging Europe https://packagingeurope.com/enhancing-the-properties-of-polymers/ 2/4 enhancing polymer properties to improve recyclability improve barrier properties reduce material volume improve impact resistance and so on. Maintaining mechanical properties One way to enhance properties is through including additives to polymers at the start of the manufacturing process – an area where Imerys which provides a wide variety of mineral solutions to enhance the properties of finished products and address sustainability requirements is heavily involved. “The current challenge is to ensure that mechanical properties which tend to deteriorate during recycling processes are maintained or even enhanced to enable them to meet ever more stringent specifications and remain cost-effective says Kelvin Thomas Polymers Development Manager at the company. “Talc can be added to recycled plastic compounds to restore mechanical performance - for example a recycled PP compound containing a 20% loading of Steagreen® talc can match the performance of a nonrecycled talc-filled PP compound and can therefore be used for high performance applications. Focus on compatibilizers Another area a lot of big players are investing in when it comes to polymer additives is compatibilizers which can not only improve recyclability but also crucially allow the more efficient use of post-consumer waste – thus contributing to the all-encompassing goal of circularity. “Where packaging is currently made up of different layers and materials to meet brand owners’ functional needs it is difficult to separate and break these down for recycling says Carsten Larsen Commercial Director Recycling EMEA & APAC Packaging & Specialty Plastics at Dow. “That’s why we also offer compatibilizers which work in a similar manner to a detergent that can combine oil and water allowing the homogeneous mixing of plastic waste and enhancing its properties. Compatibilized post-consumer waste can be used in flexible film applications. At K 2019 Dow showcased its design for recyclability portfolio where its offerings included concepts for simple multi-layered structures without barriers more complex packaging with customised barriers for food protection as well as conversion process redesign – including the use of compatibilizers to help enhance the mechanical recyclability of multilayer packaging and a spout insertion technology. Dow is also investing in innovation and new technologies to produce high quality resins with plastic waste content. It has been partnering with Fuenix Ecogy Group to recycle plastic waste into pyrolysis oil to produce new polymers which it says ‘will be of the same quality as materials using virgin feedstocks and can be used in all applications including food packaging’. Imerys meanwhile has developed a mineral-based compatibilizer ImerLink® to create effective links between blends of polyethylene and polypropylene – usually incompatible 3/5/2021 Enhancing the properties of polymers - Packaging Europe https://packagingeurope.com/enhancing-the-properties-of-polymers/ 3/4 – through a reactive process. This says Kelvin Thomas results in a material with improved properties with an optimum stiffness/toughness balance. “PE and PP are often compatibilized using interfacial agents such as olefin block copolymers (OBCs) but the resulting material can still have two phases. The blend is not truly compatibilized. OBCs can also be quite expensive. ImerLink® is effective because it not only changes the miscibility of the PE and PP phases but also creates a new network of bonds between the phases and the coated mineral. This allows the use of postconsumer plastic waste which is rarely pure PP or PE but more often a mix of both due to contamination. Covestro meanwhile is involved in a research project TERMINUS to investigate the debonding of polymer layers of packaging materials. Its aim is to make the mechanical recycling of laminates less dependent on the adhesive or in other words to enable debonding ‘on-demand’ so that layers can be recycled in their material streams to create higher value recyclate. Recycling challenges However there are limitations to mechanical recycling as Carsten Larsen points out. “For example you cannot easily recycle many types of food packaging into new applications because of contamination issues and stringent packaging regulations. Mechanical recycling also degrades with each round of recycling. This not only limits what it can be used in but often requires additional virgin resins to increase its performance – this adds more weight and increases CO2 emissions. That being the case chemical recycling offers a very promising future alternative for cases where mechanical does not go far enough. Dow sees chemical recycling (or feedstock recycling to use an interchangeable term) as a complementary alternative to mechanical as it ‘allows waste to maintain its value and become infinitely recyclable’. “Feedstock recycling is therefore necessary if we are to meet both the EU’s legally binding plastics packaging recycling target of 55% by 2030 and to deliver possible binding European targets on recycled content adds Carsten. “It will also enable recycled content in highly regulated applications such as food contact packaging and meet our voluntary commitment under the EU’s Circular Plastic Alliance of 100K MT of recycled plastic to European customers by 2025. But moving back to mechanical for a moment it’s no secret that large parts of the industry believe the future lies in the development of increasingly functional mono materials that can increase recyclability in existing waste management systems. “With polyethylene (PE) for example it’s possible to offer mono-material solutions that enable high performing packaging which can make recyclability possible says Carsten Larsen. “Unlike multi-material conventional packaging mono-material packaging can offer greater recyclability without losing the benefits such as optimum product protection. Compostable and biopolymers 3/5/2021 Enhancing the properties of polymers - Packaging Europe https://packagingeurope.com/enhancing-the-properties-of-polymers/ 4/4 Exciting developments in compostable polymers and novel biopolymers are also ongoing. While they do not yet hold a large share of the market – and there are still many challenges to be overcome as we shall see – it’s undeniable that they hold promise for the future. There are areas where compostability in particular can be very useful – particularly when organic content can be used to bring nutrition back to the soil such as with coffee capsules. When it comes to biodegradation Covestro has launched ‘the first raw materials that can biodegrade under different environmental conditions’. However Christos Lecou Marketing Manager Industrial Adhesives at the company does draw our attention to an issue with which many of us will now be familiar: “There is a controversy if composting of packaging should count as recycling. Take the example of an empty crisp pack. Here the material is not further used. It gets lost in the environment forming mainly CO2 and water without giving back nutrition to the soil. Therefore wherever possible waste materials should rather be utilized than being disposed into the environment. We are participating in several projects to generate precursors for our raw materials back from waste streams. For instance the project BioCatPolymers focuses on bio-catalytic possibilities to extract polymer building blocks out of woody biomass. Our contacts at Imerys also note the rising demand for biobased and biodegradable materials but highlight challenges such as the current low availability of feedstocks and raw materials processability windows a need to improve mechanical properties and thermal resistance for packaging applications and a relatively low cost-effectiveness. “For rigid applications process-wise talc improves PLA and PHA (and that’s a nonexhaustive list of examples) melt strength eliminating strand breakage during cooling and facilitating compound granulation. As an effective nucleating agent the use of talc can also significantly increase the crystallization speed of some biopolymers explains Anaïs Berjeaud Polymers Technical Support Manager. Being a mineral solutions provider Imerys has developed Eco-Delink™ an engineered calcined kaolin in order to enhance compostability. “At 20% loading in PHA EcoDelink™ provides faster degradation as well as improving processing conditions explains Mike Bird Development Manager Plastics & Rubber. Our industry insiders have given us much to consider here. But all of this is a mere snapshot of the ongoing innovation in packaging polymers. Whether it’s the growing use of polymer nanocomposite packaging materials or increased interest in biobased materials such as PEF (a durable plant-based polymer)
Sika Acquires Mortar Manufacturer in Brazil - March 2021. SIKA ACQUIRES MORTAR MANUFACTURER IN BRAZIL Sika has agreed to acquire Supermassa do Brasil Ltda a mortar manufacturer which operates under the brand BR Massa in the Brazilian market. The acquisition will enhance Sika’s position in the region of Minas Gerais one of the strongest economic regions in Brazil and complement the production footprint. The transaction is subject to clearance by the local anti-trust authorities. The company holds a key market position in the region of Minas Gerais mainly offering tile setting materials and facade mortars. BR Massa is a well-known local brand with a strong presence in the distribution channel. It will provide Sika with improved access to builders’ merchants and specialized dealers and lead to attractive cross-selling opportunities for Sika’s products through these channels. The acquisition complements the production footprint with a mortar manufacturing facility in a region where Sika has not previously had its own plant. Christoph Ganz Regional Manager Americas: “With BR Massa we will be able to better serve and supply our customers in the Minas Gerais region. The enhanced access to the distribution channel supported by the expanded local supply chain will contribute to the continued penetration of the Brazilian market. We warmly welcome the BR Massa employees to the Sika team and look forward to growing our business together.
AkzoNobel Opens R&D Facility for low cure powder coatings. COMO Italy — AkzoNobel has opened a new research center at its site in Como Italy that will develop products for the growing area of powder on wood. The new R&D facility which features an application lab process lab and an analytical and testing lab is dedicated to delivering low-cure powder coatings for use on heat-sensitive substrates such as MDF plywood thermoplastics and composites. The center’s inauguration follows AkzoNobel’s recent acquisition of Stahl’s powder coatings activities which gave AkzoNobel access to a broad range of solutions including unique UV technology. The Como center will now focus on developing an expanding portfolio of low-cure solutions including low-bake UV and ultra-lowbake powder technologies. This will enable customers to use less energy during production gain process speed and boost their own sustainability profile. “We’re excited to build on our global leadership position and enter new markets while bringing more surfaces to life for our customers said Daniela Vlad Director of AkzoNobel’s Powder Coatings business. “In addition to strengthening our position as a technology leader the new facility will also help to accelerate our speed to market so we can reach our customers even faster. Vlad added that this is only the first phase of the company’s expansion into powder on wood with plans in place to open additional R&D centers in Asia and North America. With customers worldwide looking to embrace the sustainability benefits that powder has to offer powder on wood has become one a fast-growing area within the coatings industry.
AOC Announces EMEA Price Increase. AOC Announces EMEA Price Increase The price increase will take immediate effect for all new orders or as soon as contracts allow according to AOC. RELATED CONTENT • Anthony Locicero Associate editor03.03.21 AOC announced a price increase of €350 per ton for its entire UPR portfolio and €450 per ton for its entire Epoxy Vinyl Ester (VE) portfolio sold in Europe Middle East and Africa. The price increase will take immediate effect for all new orders or as soon as contracts allow according to AOC. This price increase is in addition to the increases that were previously announced the company said. “The pricing of Styrene Maleic Anhydride Liquid Epoxy Resin (LER) and other key raw materials has seen continued increases over the past months following outages across the globe and force majeure declarations in Europe. Also logistics and packaging costs have been increasing steadily. This leaves us no choice but to raise the prices of our products as a result said Fons Harbers VP
Arkema and Polymer Engineering Develop Blending Technology for Kynar Flex PVDF and Rubber. The capability to blend high-performance PVDF with various types of rubber has been achieved jointly by Arkema King of Prussia Penn. and Canada’s Polymer Engineering Company (PEC) a 36-year old privately owned consulting company which offers specialized expertise in the field of polymer technology including plastic and rubber materials coatings paints adhesives and other unique polymeric applications. The combination of Kynar Flex PVDF thermoplastic fluoropolymer with rubber materials allows melt processing through chemical compatibilization and vulcanization. The capability to create various fluoropolymer-rubber combinations reportedly results in products that have a range of properties offered by each respective component.
Azelis and Mane establish distribution agreement for flavor solutions in Benelux. Azelis and Mane establish distribution agreement for flavor solutions in Benelux 15 Jan 2021 --- Azelis has made a new and exclusive agreement with French flavor house Mane to distribute its flavor and taste solutions in the Benelux region. Commencing this month Mane’s flavors and taste solutions will be distributed exclusively by Azelis. According to both companies the agreement is “a great next step and reinforces the collaboration between them. “We are delighted to be Mane’s exclusive distributor in Belgium and the Netherlands with the accolade of introducing their products to the food markets states Andrey Zhukov market segment director of food and health EMEA. “We share Mane’s values for quality innovation and sustainability and believe our customers will benefit greatly from our combined technical expertise and our ability to assist with innovation and product development.Mane’s flavors and taste solutions will be distributed exclusively by Azelis. Joining forces According to Zhukov the partnership will enable Mane to extend its presence to nearly full market coverage and see a number of its existing customers being serviced more efficiently by the dedicated Azelis teams. “Joining forces this way promises to become a successful path for the benefit of both partners as well as their customers says Renaud Milliard flavor distribution director EMEA at Mane. The latest announcement joins Azelis’ series of activity in its distribution agreements. In November Azelis strengthened its position in the Indonesian food and health market by extending its partnership with Corbion. In July Azelis revealed it would distribute Kerry’s solutions for the Polish market’s meat industry. Meanwhile Mane continues with headway in its flavor solutions. Last week the company
Braskem to invest 61M to Expand Green Ethylene Production Capacity. Braskem SA has announced it is planning to pour $61 million into expanding the capacity of its green ethylene production unit in Triunfo Rio Grande do Sul Brazil. Responding to the strong and fast-growing demand for renewably-sourced plastics Brazilian petrochemical giant Braskem SA has announced it is planning to pour $61 million into expanding the capacity of its green ethylene production unit in Triunfo Rio Grande do Sul Brazil. Braskems renewably-sourced green ethylene derived from sugarcane ethanol is used in the production of its Im Green materials portfolio. The portfolio includes different grades of PE and a bio-based EVA that has found application in the automotive and footwear industries. The capacity of the green ethylene unit currently 200000 metric tons per year will be expanded to 260 kilotonness per year as part of a project that will be rolled out in 2021 and concluded in the fourth quarter of 2022. The expansion underlines Braskems commitment towards sustainable development said global biopolymers leader Marco Jansen. The increase in biopolymer capacity and production reflects healthy growth in demand from society and our partners for sustainable products which has increased significantly in recent years. Our business expansion aims to consolidate Braskems leadership of the biopolymers market he added. Braskem invested an initial $290 million in building its renewably-sourced ethylene unit in 2007. The company unveiled the worlds first polyethylene produced from renewable resources on an industrial scale in 2010. The present expansion will not only help to meet strong global demand for biopolymers it will also promote the companys efforts towards reaching carbon neutrality by 2050 by reducing the companys CO2 emissions by 185 kilotons. Carbon neutralization is one of the most viable paths to minimize the impacts of climate change Jansen said. Increasing our production of plastic derived from sugarcane will bring significant gains both for us and our clients around the world in terms of sustainability. Braskem will continue to serve its customers and operate at normal capacity during the execution of the project.
Bostik Strengthens Instant Engineering Adhesives Business with Investment in Crackless Monomer Co. Arkema recently announced an investment in Crackless Monomer Co. (CMC) a joint venture between Bostik and Taiwanese company Cartell Chemical Co. to accelerate the development and production of high-value-added engineering adhesives. CMC which will be 51% owned by Bostik for an investment of around $11 million will produce specialty cyanoacrylate monomers on an industrial scale at a competitive cost. The investment will reportedly enable Bostik to accelerate the development of high value-added engineering adhesives dedicated to the electronics medical equipment and DIY markets. According to Arkema Bostik’s parent company this investment complements the acquisition of Afinitica in 2018 and enables Bostik to further expand its range of instant engineering adhesives manufactured through a patented “crackless process. The adhesives formulated through this process reportedly feature unique properties that offer added comfort to end users.
Cargill in talks to divest assets in global sugar trading business. Cargill in talks to divest assets in global sugar trading business 18 Jan 2021 --- Cargill is in talks to withdraw from its global sugar trading business. The agri-food powerhouse is now eyeing the potential sale of a 50 percent stake Alvean a joint venture with Brazilian sugar giant Copersucar. Following the pending divestiture Cargill would pivot its focus toward its food processing and meat activities. Both companies have declined to provide financial details on the proposed transaction with the deadline of the divestment still uncertain. “There has been no change in [Alvean’s] structure or how it serves its customers Paulo Mathias service manager at Copersucar tells FoodIngredientsFirst. “The two shareholders have discussed an agreement where Copersucar will become the sole owner and acquire Cargill’s shares in Alvean he continues. “If an agreement is reached we will communicate appropriately. FoodIngredientsFirst has reached out to Cargill for additional comment. Agri-food giants offload sugar assets Alvean was formed in 2014 when parent companies Cargill and Copersucar decided to merge their global sugar trading activities. Alvean was formed in 2014 when parent companies Cargill and Copersucar decided to merge their global sugar trading activities.Between 2019 and 2020 Alvean represented an estimated 20 percent of global sugar shipments. Cargill’s targeted divestment comes after a similar announcement from Louis Dreyfus Co. last September which targeted the sale of its Brazilian mills to Raízen a sugar heavyweight of the South American market. Cargill business highlights Amid the tumultuous COVID-19 period Cargill oversaw business global expansions that included the roll out of new alternative meat products and foray into new markets for chocolate. Cargill is expanding its European lineup of plant-based solutions to include pea protein varieties expanding beyond its active markets for these products in North America Asia and South America.
CHROMAFLO TECHNOLOGIES releases app that reportedly features to use and access Chromaflo Website. CHROMAFLO TECHNOLOGIES: New App The Chromaflo app is available in English and for free download from the iOS and Android app stores. January 19 2021 KEYWORDS additives / pigments and dyes / resources Order Reprints No Comments Chromaflo Technologies has released a streamlined app that reportedly features multiple options for users to quickly access the Chromaflo website and information about the company download product data view the company’s social wall and stay updated on company news and events. The app also includes a colorful free-to-play puzzle game entitled Color Match. “We’re thrilled to introduce our first-generation app to our valued customers and other interested users said Steve Riccardi director of Global Marketing & Business Development. “The app’s seamless user interface allows customers to quickly gain access to much of what Chromaflo has to offer and help us to more efficiently connect with them. The simple navigation and clean design makes it easy for the users. Plus the Color Match game offers some color-related fun while learning more about us. The app is available in English and for free download from the iOS and Android app stores. For
Flint Group CPS Announce Price Increases Across Sheetfed Inks. There are challenges throughout the ink supply chain and Flint Group Commercial Publication and Sheetfed Inks (CPS) has been faced with cost increases across the full breadth of the supply chain from raw materials to logistics. As a result Flint Group CPS announced price increases across their sheetfed inks and coatings throughout North America. The industry has seen considerable pressure placed on its supply chain due to a number of global shortages for key raw materials used in the ink manufacturing process such as pigments resins and chemicals. In addition disruption caused to global logistics due to the COVID-19 pandemic has led to rising freight costs and availability. For example recently there have been upstream force majeure announcements and the acute global freight imbalance is impeding some corrective actions. Flint Group CPS has worked to mitigate the rising costs where possible implementing a number of internal improvement processes as well as working closely with its supplier network but it can’t absorb the full upturn in cost. Flint Group has to pass on some of these increases in order to continue to service our customer base effectively. The increases will be active for all sheetfed inks and coatings sold and will be effective April 1 2021 or by contract.
Huntsman Corp - acquires Gabriel Performance Products. Audax Private Equity (Audax Boston Mass. U.S.) announced on Jan. 19 that it has completed the sale of Gabriel Performance Products (Akron Ohio U.S.) to chemical manufacturing company Huntsman Corp. (The Woodlands Texas U.S.). Gabriel is a manufacturer of specialty chemicals including specialty additives and epoxy curing agents for the coatings adhesives and composites end markets. The company manufactures high-performance complex chemistries under the Gabepro/Capcure Phenoxy RoyOxy Ranbar Versamid and Versacure brands. Gabriel operates three manufacturing facilities in the U.S. and partners with customers in more than 40 countries. Since Audax’ investment in Gabriel in October 2014 the company has completed six acquisitions expanded its proprietary product portfolio and developed a direct sales model to partner more effectively with its customers. “Audax has been a valuable partner in helping us grow Gabriel into a leading specialty chemicals manufacturer that delivers state-of-the-art scalable ready-made and customized chemical solutions with exceptional customer service says Seth Tomasch CEO of Gabriel. “We look forward to continuing to execute on our growth strategy in partnership with the Huntsman team. Kirkland and Ellis LLP and Fredrikson and Byron P.A. served as legal a
Indevco Plastics Introduces Circular Collation Shrink Film. Indevco Plastics Introduces Circular Collation Shrink Film TAGS: SUSTAINABILITY MECHANICAL RECYCLING MATERIALS Image: Indevco The shrink film uses 50% post-consumer recycled resin and is fully recyclable at store drop-off locations across the United States. Clare Goldsberry | Jan 18 2021 Indevco Plastics has introduced print-grade shrink bundling film for multi-packs that delivers a circular plastics solution. Using 50% post-consumer recycled (PCR) resin the collation shrink film is fully recyclable at store drop-off locations across the United States. Based in Longview TX Indevco Plastics co-developed the film with Dow a fellow member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste for food and beverage manufacturers who bundle products in multi-unit packages. Dow’s PCR resin first introduced for shrink applications in North America in October contains 70% certified PCR sourced from a reliable local US supply. “In our partnership with Dow we focused on the right resin selection film thickness and impact on the waste stream explained Wayne Mashe Indeveco Plastics Divisional General Manager. “The result is a high-performing collation shrink that not only meets market requirements but also uses half the virgin resins and can be recycled and repurposed into other products. The low-gauge high-strength collation shrink film is available as plain or print-ready rolls and has passed an array of tests for mechanical optical and processing properties. The unprinted film is devoid of ink allowing the package design of products within to advertise themselves or the film can be printed by packaging converters said Indevco. The 50% recycled content allows Indevco to reduce greenhouse gas emissions during production and helps its customers’ customers — consumers — keep waste out of landfills and the environment. “Both of these help our customers contribute to a circular economy said Jay Bodine Indevco Plastics Plant Manager. In addition to PCR resins Indevco Plastics can produce shrink bundling film using postindustrial recycled resin from its own waste stream.
IFS Coatings Breaks Ground on 70. IFS Coatings Breaks Ground on 70000-Square-Foot Expansion Located next to the companys current headquarters and an IFS manufacturing plant in Gainesville Texas. Anthony Locicero Associate editor03.03.21 IFS Coatings announced that it broke ground on a new facility. Located next to the companys current headquarters and an IFS manufacturing plant in Gainesville Texas phase one of the project commenced with a groundbreaking on an initial 40000-square-foot facility which is part of a 70000-square-foot total expansion plan. “As well as growing our core business over recent years we have invested heavily in growth areas such as thermoplastic powders functional products and environmentally responsible powder for alternate substrates said Glynn Mason president of IFS Coatings. This new building signifies our confidence in these advances delivers much-needed room for growth and will enhance our overall capabilities. The new building will accommodate increased capacity and new technology and will include space for manufacturing warehousing and development projects. “We see this expansion as a celebration of our commitment to growth in our local communities and we are excited about the opportunities it offers enabling us to respond to increasing demand for our sustainable powder coatings Mason said.
Nippon Paint Marine Wins Korea Export Award. Winning a Gold Export Tower in the $10 million export category marks the second year running the coatings manufacturer has taken home an award. In 2019 Nippon Paint Marine was runner up winning a silver tower. Last year’s event held in December at the COEX Artium in Samseong-dong South Korea was attended by South Korea President Moon Jae-in Sung Yun-mo minister of Trade Industry and Energy and Kim Young-joo chairman of the Korea International Trade Association. This year has been hard for everyone. International commodity traders have also suffered many difficulties under unprecedented circumstances. However the Republic of Korea’s trade has demonstrated its potential once again Moon said. “We have turned our exports back into positive territory faster than other countries. The miraculous resilience of our exports – currently ranked 7th in the world – together with Korea’s successful response to COVID-19 has served as a driving force for our economic rebound beginning in the third quarter. Some 1505 companies were awarded Trade Towers and 599 individuals received awards for their important contribution to exports. “I must take this opportunity to thank our customers and colleagues all of whom have contributed to making this award possible said J.H Lee president of Nippon Paint Korea. We achieved the silver trophy for our efforts in 2019 but now we have our hands on the top prize. Winning a 2020 Gold Export Tower especially given the difficulties faced during the Covid crisis is a huge accolade for which we should all be very proud. “The high export volume is indicative of increased market demand for marine coatings capable of reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions he continued. Coatings with a high solids content and low volatile organic compounds are key factors in helping ship operators reduce the impact of their operations on the ocean environment. We aim to continue our efforts to support demand for high performing environmentally friendly coatings across our segments.
PPG Acquires Coatings Manufacturer VersaFlex. PPG announced that it has completed its acquisition of VersaFlex from DalFort Capital Partners. VersaFlex specializes in polyurea epoxy and polyurethane coatings for water and wastewater infrastructure flooring transportation infrastructure and industrial applications. Financial terms were not disclosed. VersaFlex is an aggregation of four U.S.-based protective coatings companies consisting of legacy VersaFlex Raven Lining Systems Milamar Coatings and Specialty Products Inc. The company has approximately 130 employees and three manufacturing sites located in Kansas Oklahoma and Washington. Its full year 2020 revenue was approximately $70 million. The post PPG Acquires Coatings Manufacturer VersaFlex appeared first on American Coatings Association.
Solvay to develop composite structure for Vertical Aerospace eVTOL aircraft. A-1X eVTOL aircraft. All photo credit: Solvay Solvay (Alpharetta Ga. U.S.) is partnering with Vertical Aerospace (Bristol U.K.) to develop the composite structure of Vertical Aerospace’s passenger air-taxi program VA-1X (shown above). This piloted electric vertical takeoff and landing (eVTOL) flagship aircraft will be able to carry four passengers and one pilot for 100 miles (160 kilometers) at cruise speeds of 150 miles per hour/240 kilometers per hour. As part of the agreement signed by both companies Solvay will provide access to its extensive composite and adhesive qualified product portfolio and specialized technical and application support both at Solvay’s European Application Centers and at Vertical Aerospace’s office in Bristol UK. Together the companies aim to successfully develop the first flying prototype scheduled for a test flight in September 2021. “Solvay is proud to partner with Vertical Aerospace a pioneer in sustainable aviation technologies whose VA-1X aircraft is set to revolutionize the way we travel says Carmelo Lo Faro president of Solvay Composite Materials Global Business Unit. “By providing the performance required to operate safely and maximize range while facilitating the processes needed for mass production our advanced materials will be key enablers to the mass-adoption of eVTOLs. Solvay and Vertical Aerospace sustainability agendas are reported to be fully aligned. The VA-1X will be electrically powered where possible by renewable energy and will offer emission-free flights. The aircraft certification is planned for 2024 with commercial services starting shortly after. “We are incredibly excited to be working hand in hand with Solvay co-innovating to develop a lightweight advanced and sustainable eVTOL thanks to their portfolio of advanced materials says Michael Cervenka CEO of Vertical Aerospace.
Synthomer dismisses takeover reports. United Kingdom-based materials supplier Synthomer plc said it is not discussing a possible offer for the company dismissing media reports of a potential takeover. Shares in the group had spiked by almost 10 percent to $510 since the middle of last week but reverted back to previous levels following a Feb. 24 statement to the London Stock Exchange. Shares were trading around $467 as of the morning of Feb. 25. CVC Capital Partners had been exploring a bid for the company which is valued around $2.8 million according to a Bloomberg report. The private equity firm made an initial approach to Synthomer to gauge its interest in a deal according to the people who asked not to be identified because the information is private. The two parties currently are not holding any negotiations one of the people said. In 2019 Essex England-based Synthomer purchased specialty chemical company Omnova Solutions Inc. in a deal worth about $455 million. Synthomer recently upgraded its earnings forecast citing strong trading across its main business areas which include synthetic latex gloves paints and coatings construction textiles and paper. The company now expects 2020 earnings (EBITDA) of around $311 million about 10 percent ahead of the guidance provided in a trading statement of Oct. 14 2020. Synthomer is scheduled to release full-year results on March 4. The group reported 2019 revenues of more than $1.2 billion and earnings (EBITDA) of more than $232 million. Synthomer employs around 4750 people across more than 38 sites including regional bases in Atlanta Harlow U.K. Marl Germany and Kuala Lumpur Malaysia
Celebrating Inspiring Community Achievements. ATLANTA (February 4 2021) – As part of the Huber Helps Impact Your Community (IYC) funding program 12 organizations received donations in 2019 and 2020 to support projects that will benefit their communities for the long term. The Huber Helps team invited individuals from these recipient organizations to a virtual recognition event on October 27 2020. Representatives from five of the groups provided updates about their projects including feedback from community members and the effects that COVID-19 have had on the people they serve. The event also acknowledged the support and advocacy of Huber employees for meaningful causes in their local communities. Huber President & CEO Mike Marberry said “Through Huber Helps we have a strong connection to people. We want our efforts to be personally meaningful to our employees family owners and individuals in the communities where we reside and operate. The video below shows highlights from the event demonstrating the legacy Huber is leaving in these local communities. These efforts are part of Huber’s commitment to donating a percentage of the Company’s annual net revenue to charitable causes in the communities where our employees live and work. You can read more about Huber Helps as well as the 2021 IYC funding recipients.
ICP Building Solutions Acquires Gardner-Gibson _ 2021-01-11 _ Adhesives & Sealants Industry. ICP Building Solutions Acquires Gardner-Gibson Based in Tampa Fla. Gardner-Gibson has manufacturing and distribution facilities across the U.S. and Canada. Innovative Chemical Products Group (ICP) recently announced that it has acquired Gardner-Gibson and Sun Coatings (Gardner-Gibson) a leading manufacturer of liquid-applied roof coatings roofing products driveway sealers and specialty paints primarily serving professional contractors for This website requires certain cookies to work and uses other cookies to help you have the best experience. By visiting this website certain cookies have already been set which you may delete and block. By closing this message or continuing to use our site you agree to the use of cookies. Visit our updated privacy and cookie policy to learn more. ? / The latest news and information Content focused on adhesive & sealant manufacturing formulations and finished products SUBSCRIBE TODAY Copyright ©2021. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design CMS Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing commercial and residential applications. ICP reports that the acquisition builds on its line of building solutions and global distribution network and creates one of the largest privately held coatings and adhesives companies in North America. “The Gardner-Gibson acquisition and combination with ICP Group will strengthen the product offerings and distribution network for both companies said Doug Mattscheck CEO of ICP. “We were strong individually and will be even stronger together as we enhance our portfolio of coatings adhesives and building envelope solutions. ICP Group welcomes the Gardner-Gibson employees to the ICP family and looks forward to supporting the continued growth of the combined businesses. Based in Tampa Fla. Gardner-Gibson has manufacturing and distribution facilities across the U.S. and Canada. Its products are sold in leading retailers and building supply distributors under the Gardner Black Jack APOC and Dyco brands. “ICP Group has the infrastructure networks and experience to take Gardner-Gibson to new levels of success said Sean Hyer CEO of Gardner-Gibson. “We’re looking forward to working together and delivering more value to our customers retail partners and distributors for years to come. It’s an exciting time to be at Gardner-Gibson as we enter this new era of innovation and product expansion with ICP. For more information visit www.icpgroup.com and www.gardner-gibson.com.
Walsh & Associates Announces Distribution Agreement With EP Minerals _ 2021-01-05 _ PCI Magazine. Walsh & Associates Announces Distribution Agreement With EP Minerals ST LOUIS MO — Specialty chemicals distributor Walsh & Associates Inc. St. Louis Missouri announced a new distribution relationship with EP Minerals LLC a U.S. Silica company. Walsh now distributes EP Minerals’ diatamaecous earth (DE) perlite cellulose and cristobalite product lines in select states in the Midwest.
LafargeHolcim to acquire Firestone Building Products from Bridgestone Americas. LafargeHolcim to acquire Firestone Building Products from Bridgestone Americas ? Acquiring industry leader in commercial roofing and building envelope solutions to position it for continued growth ? A milestone in the transformation of LafargeHolcim to become the global leader in innovative and sustainable building materials and solutions ? Strengthening LafargeHolcim’s biggest market the US with annual sales to exceed USD 6bn ? Plans to expand in Europe and Latin America to become the global leader in flat roofing systems ? Sale to enable Bridgestone to strengthen investments in company’s tire business and fast-growing mobility solutions business LafargeHolcim has signed an agreement to acquire Firestone Building Products (FSBP) a leader in commercial roofing and building envelope solutions based in the United States (US) with 2020 (est.) net sales of USD 1.8 billion and EBITDA of USD 270 million. This acquisition is a milestone in LafargeHolcim’s transformation to become the global leader in innovative and sustainable building solutions. This transaction is valued at USD 3.4 billion to be financed with cash and debt while maintaining net debt below 2x. Synergies of USD 110 million per year are expected on a run-rate basis within two years of closing which is expected in the second quarter. The acquisition is earnings per share (EPS) accretive from the first year. Jan Jenisch LafargeHolcim CEO: “I am excited to be entering the highly attractive roofing business. With Firestone Building Products we are strengthening our biggest market the US while also building a global growth and innovation platform for the company. Today’s milestone is a strategic leap on our journey to become the global leader in innovative and sustainable building solutions to build a world that works for people and the planet. I have great respect for the high-caliber leadership and expertise of the Firestone Building Products’ team and look forward to welcoming them into the LafargeHolcim family. Paolo Ferrari Bridgestone Americas President CEO & COO: “This transaction will create new growth opportunities for Firestone Building Products and allow Bridgestone to focus its resources to further invest in the company’s tire business and rapidly growing mobility solutions business. Like Bridgestone LafargeHolcim is a global company with a strong financial position and thriving culture. Media Release Media Relations: media@lafargeholcim.com Investor Relations: investor.relations@lafargeholcim.com +41 (0) 58 858 87 10 +41 (0) 58 858 87 87 2/3 We know they will take great care of our Firestone Building Products employees and customers and ensure the business enjoys growth and success for many years to come. Taylor Cole Firestone Building Products President: “Today is a big moment for the Firestone Building Products team as we look forward to becoming part of the global leader in building materials and solutions. Together we are in a prime position to accelerate our growth by combining Firestone Building Products’ advanced technologies and know-how with LafargeHolcim’s global scale and reach. Founded in 1980 Firestone Building Products (FSBP) is a business unit of Bridgestone Americas and part of Tokyo-based Bridgestone Corporation a global leader providing tires and sustainable mobility solutions that create social and customer value. The acquisition of FSBP will strengthen LafargeHolcim’s biggest market the US establishing a new growth profile reaching USD 6 billion in annual net sales. Building on FSBP’s strong organic growth LafargeHolcim expects to accelerate its leadership through cross-selling opportunities and further bolt-on acquisitions. LafargeHolcim also aims to swiftly globalize the business leveraging its European and Latin American footprint. Urbanization trends are accelerating the development of the flat roof market currently estimated at around USD 50 billion globally. By entering this attractive new business LafargeHolcim will deliver above-market growth driven by innovative technologies and branding. It will also benefit from FSBP’s position in the high-growth repair and refurbishment segment accounting for the majority of its sales today. With up to 60% of buildings’ energy lost through roofs FSBP plays an instrumental role in mitigating this process with its industry-leading technologies including cool roofs insulation and waterproofing systems. In addition its green roofs contribute to more sustainable urban environments. These technologies complement LafargeHolcim’s sustainable building solutions from its ECOPact green concrete to its EcoLabel range accelerating the company’s net zero commitment. With this acquisition LafargeHolcim will add 15 manufacturing facilities 1800 distribution points and three R&D laboratories to its network. Upon completion of the sale FSBP will continue to be headquartered in Nashville Tennessee and all 1900 FSBP employees will transition to LafargeHolcim.
Sappi implements innovative barrier paper technology to increase production _ Sappi Global. Sappi implements innovative barrier paper technology to increase production Tuesday January 12 2021 Sappi Europe will introduce new barrier coating technology for functional paper packaging at its speciality mill in Alfeld Germany strengthening its position as the leading global provider of sustainable paper packaging solutions. Explaining the decision Berry Wiersum CEO Sappi Europe stated: “Expanding the use of our proprietary barrier coating technology underpins Sappi Europe’s drive to maintain our leading position in barrier coated paper as well the commitment we have with our customers in developing innovative future focused packaging solutions which contribute towards a sustainable future Investment in sustainable barrier coating technology Comprehensive expertise in future focused functional paper packaging Where performance meets environmental accountability The demand for paper and paperboard packaging continues to rise dramatically as consumers become increasingly mindful of the impact their buying choices have on the environment. The call for innovative truly sustainable solutions has never been louder. Sappi is striving to support its customers to go beyond traditional film and foil-based material solutions growing its products ranges to meet the demands of our ever-changing world. Working directly with brand owners Sappi seeks to create futureoriented circular solutions in line with growing collective global responsibilities. The desire to continuously evolve to meet and exceed the business needs requires ongoing investment in innovation in order to create the solutions of tomorrow. Sappi’s acquisition of Rockwell Solutions has deepened the company’s barrier paper manufacturing knowledge. Adding barrier coater capacity at Alfeld Mill further upscales our capabilities brings this unique combination of paper dispersion and
Desalination breakthrough could make clean water cheaper _ World Economic Forum. This desalination breakthrough could make clean water cheaper This article is published in collaboration with Futurity 18 Jan 2021 Nat Levy Lead Writer University of Texas Cockrell School of Engineering The problem of desalinisation had been baffling scientists for decades. Image: Tyler Henderson/Penn State Making membranes uniform in density could vastly improve the efficiency of desalinisation researchers have found. The breakthrough could lead to increased access to clean water and lower water bills for individual homes and large users alike. Researchers have solved a complex problem with water desalination that had baffled scientists for decades until now. The work could make it possible to produce clean water at a lower cost. Desalination membranes remove salt and other chemicals from water a process critical to the health of society cleaning billions of gallons of water for agriculture energy production and drinking. The idea seems simple—push salty water through and clean water comes out the other side—but it contains complex intricacies that scientists are still trying to understand. The research team in partnership with DuPont Water Solutions solved an important aspect of this mystery opening the door to reduce costs of clean water production. The researchers determined desalination membranes are inconsistent in density and mass distribution which can hold back their performance. Uniform density at the nanoscale is the key to increasing how much clean water these membranes can create.
SINGLE-USE FIBRE-BASED PACKAGING IS BETTER FOR THE ENVIRONMENT THAN REUSABLE TABLEWARE - RDM. A new European study – released by EPPA the European Paper Packaging Association – challenges common perception that reusable tableware in quick service restaurants has lower environmental impacts than single-use fibre-based packaging. The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) conducted by Ramboll – the independent Danish consultants to the European Commission and certified by TUV – used current primary data from the packaging and food-service industries to compare the environmental performance over a year of typical disposable and reusable food and drink containers used in a quick-service restaurant for in-store consumption. The findings highlight that the main issue with reusables is the energy and water they consume during washing and drying to ensure they are hygienic and safe for reuse by customers. As a matter of fact the report reveals that reusable tableware generated 177% more CO2-e emissions than the paper-based single-use system consumed 267% more freshwater and produced 132% more fine particles matter. “This means that single-use is better for the climate and does not aggravate the problems of water stress now a growing issue in many European countries affirmed Mr. Antonio D’Amato President of EPPA.
Mondi enters low-white recycled office paper market with NAUTILUS® Elemental awarded with Blue Angel certification. Mondi enters low-white recycled office paper market with NAUTILUS® Elemental awarded with Blue Angel certification Thu 28. January by Newsroom Mondi launches its first low-white recycled paper (ISO 70/CIE 55) under the NAUTILUS brand family With the new product Mondi further extends its recycled paper offering and increases the choice in the growing low-white market segment which has previously had limited availability NAUTILUS Elemental is ideally suited for office printing and awarded with certification schemes including Blue Angel and FSC Recycled Mondi a global leader in packaging and paper launches NAUTILUS Elemental its first recycled office paper product for the low-white segment. The new product made from 100% post-consumer waste complements the existing wide range of premium high-white recycled papers. Low-white recycled papers are particularly popular with public authorities and institutions (e.g. schools). The new paper is now available across Europe.
Braskem Idesa restarts PE plant in Mexico. Braskems Ethylene XXI petrochemical complex in Mexico. Mexico City — Braskem SA said Jan. 7 polyethylene production at its Mexico subsidiary Braskem Idesa S.A.P.I. had partially resumed but it could not estimate when the plant would resume full activities. The subsidiarys Ethylene XXI complex in Veracruz state was forced to halt production at the beginning of December after the Mexican government unilaterally halted all feedstock supplies to the complex over a feedstock contract dispute signed in 2010. In a statement the Brazilian petrochemical giant said legal measures have been initiated by BI as established in the ethane supply agreement entered into between BI and Pemex [Petróleos Mexicanos] and by Braskem Netherlands B.V BIs direct shareholder based on applicable international rules to enforce legal and contractual rights of BI and its parent company and seeking to protect its investment in Mexico. The company added that such measures include a remediation and negotiation period during which it will seek a resolution between the parties. It said that BI remains subject to an adverse scenario due to the interruption of the natural gas supplies and cannot estimate at this moment the date for the full return of BI activities or the impact of the disruption of such activities. The partial resumption was based on an experimental business model Braskem said in accordance with safety standards. The idea was to reduce the impact on the Mexican plastic industrys supply chain.
Avery Dennison Acquires Ohio-based ACPO for 87.6 Million. ACPO manufactures self-wound pressure-sensitive roll label films for the label printing and flexible packaging industries as well as industrial tapes. Jan. 6 2021 - Avery Dennison on Jan. 4 announced that it has acquired the business of Ohio-based ACPO Ltd. for the purchase price of $87.6 million subject to certain postclosing adjustments. ACPO is a leader in pressure-sensitive overlaminate products for the label and flexible packaging markets and has approximately 170 employees. Avery Dennison has acquired the majority of ACPOs assets including coating finishing and distribution operations at its Oak Harbor Ohio headquarters as well as three finishing and distribution sites in Atlanta Georgia Oak Creek Wisconsin and Vancouver Washington. Our acquisition of ACPO will further strengthen our leadership in core label materials segments said Mitch Butier Chairman President and CEO of Avery Dennison. By adding ACPOs well-regarded and complementary overlaminate product we are increasing our product portfolio and adding even more value for our customers. Avery Dennison said ACPO employees will transition to the Avery Dennison Label and Graphic Materials team. Avery Dennison (NYSE: AVY) is a global materials science and manufacturing company specializing in the design and manufacture of a wide variety of labeling and functional materials. To learn more visit: www.averydennison.com.
Vantage Expands its Esters Line with Liponate Jojoba 20. Vantage Expands its Esters Line with Liponate Jojoba 20 January 15 2021 Contact Author Close Vantage has expanded its range of jojoba esters with Liponate Jojoba 20. SPONSORED Vantage has expanded its range of jojoba esters with Liponate Jojoba 20 (INCI: Jojoba Esters) a jojobaderived emollient for vegan formulations that offers a high level of traceability and naturality. Related: Formulating on Trend: No-foam Facial Cleanser Liponate Jojoba 20 is an oil-free emollient that changes the sensorial profile of formulations to add softness spreadability and a subtle thickness resulting in a melting sensation upon application. According to the company the multifunctional ingredient has been substantiated to help protect sensitive skin and damaged hair. When tested on damaged skin the active restored hydration levels in 4 hr. Additional testing on the reduction of transepidermal water loss and skin redness further confirmed the relevance of the active for companies designing formulations for consumers with sensitive skin. Liponate Jojoba 20 is COSMOS-certified and 100% traceable due to the company’s sustainable manufacturing. The jojoba oil is extracted and transformed following a proprietary esterification process that meets the criteria of green chemistry. This complete control of the transformation chain of jojoba oil from harvest to quality control leads to quality jojoba esters. The company was also recently awarded Gold status by Ecovadis as it addresses customer demand for natural ingredients with traceability and supply security. For more information conta
PPG to Acquire VersaFlex. VersaFlex a manufacturer specializing in polyurea epoxy polyurethanes custom plural component equipment and geotechnical and insulation foams recently announced it had reached a definitive agreement to be acquired by PPG. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2021 subject to customary closing conditions. Financial terms were not disclosed. “We are excited to join PPG a global paint and coatings leader with its world-class resources and leading-edge technologies said Rob Pawlak president of VersaFlex. “Their high standards and commitment to deliver sustainable value to their customers will be a benefit for our customers’ continued success. VersaFlex is an aggregation of four U.S.-based protective coatings companies consisting of legacy VersaFlex Raven Lining Systems Milamar Coatings and Specialty Products Inc. which were acquired by DalFort Capital from 2017-2019. VersaFlex has approximately 130 employees and its 2020 revenue is expected to be approximately $70 million. The company operates three manufacturing sites located in Kansas Oklahoma and Washington. “VersaFlex’s attractive segment mix with strong growth outlook unique product offering broad expertise and manufacturing capabilities in polyurea and flooring coatings will complement and expand upon PPG’s current product offering said Ram Vadlamannati PPG senior vice president protective and marine coatings (PMC) and president Europe Middle East and Africa. “This acquisition supports PPG’s commitment to growing our industry-leading technology portfolio and customer touchpoints.
Registration Now Open for Waterborne Symposium. HATTIESBURG MS — Registration is now open for the 48th Annual International Waterborne High-Solids and Powder Coating Symposium. The one-day virtual symposium will take place Feb. 10 2021. It will feature a virtual conference including technical presentations private meeting spaces interactive exhibitor booths and an interactive student poster session. Virtual short courses will be offered March 1-3 2021. Event organizers are using the interactive platform Gathertown to host the symposium. Gathertown is a video-calling space that lets multiple people hold separate conversations in parallel walking in and out of those conversations just as easily as they would in person. Additionally exhibitors will have the opportunity to interact face-to-face with virtual attendees during the symposium. They can have materials available for attendees to download as well as
Maroon Group Expands Southeast CASE Team. Maroon Group Expands Southeast CASE Team Jeff Fields will cover Tennessee Georgia and Alabama. RELATED CONTENT Ink World staff01.13.21 Maroon Group appointed Jeff Fields to account manager covering Tennessee Georgia and Alabama. For more than 26 years Fields served the CASE markets throughout the Midwest and Southeast with previous 20 years of that experience in R&D and the last six years in sales and business management. “Jeff is a great addition to our team said Mike Maginnis Maroon Group’s S.E. regional sales manager. “With his strong education in chemistry R&D and technical director skills and adding to that his sales experience we are looking forward to have him growing the territory supporting our customers and Principal Suppliers. He is based in Georgia and will be hitting the ground running! We’re happy to have him on board.
International Paper to Sell Its Corrugated Packaging Business in Turkey to Mondi for EUR 66 Million. Jan. 5 2021 - International Paper today announced that it has entered into an agreement to sell its 90.38% ownership interest in Olmuksan International Paper to Mondi Group for approximately EUR 66 million. The Olmuksan business includes corrugated packaging facilities in Turkey with an approximate annual revenue of TRY1093 million (EUR 150 million). The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2021 subject to certain closing conditions and regulatory approvals. In a written statement IP said This action is in line with International Papers strategy to serve markets from an advantaged position. Corrugated packaging remains a strategic business for International Paper in EMEA. Headquartered in Memphis Tennessee International Paper (NYSE: IP) is a leading global producer of renewable fiber-based packaging pulp and paper products with manufacturing operations in North America Latin America Europe North Africa and Russia. To learn more visit: internationalpaper.com.
HERMA self-adhesive materials is changing its own shipping labels. New role for recycled material • For the worldwide shipment of self-adhesive material rolls HERMA is now using label material that is made entirely from post-consumer recycled fibres. • The sustainable paper labels for EPSMA coding meet demanding logistical requirements just as well as conventional labels. • „Sometimes it’s the little things we need to change to make a big difference.“ Can paper labels which are made entirely from recycled material solve the same demanding logistical tasks as labels made from fresh fibres? The self-adhesive specialist HERMA conducted a successful large-scale trial on its own behalf – and then completely changed the self-adhesive material in its standardised shipping labels for self-adhesive material rolls. HERMA produces a total of more than one million of these so-called EPSMA roll labels alone each year. „In addition to our primary environmental goal of achieving climate neutrality in 2021 we focus our attention at all times on inconspicuous things – always with the intention of making them even more sustainable“ explains Dr. Ulli Nägele Head of Development at HERMA Self-Adhesive Materials. The EPSMA roll labels on the adhesive material rolls play an important role in ensuring a smooth logistics process. This is based on an industry-standard identification system for the automatic detection of self-adhesive roll material. The labels which are quite large in size usually contain several barcodes for example with information on the length width winding direction and number of splices on a roll as well as customer data such as the order number. All barcodes must be able to be printed in sharp definition to ensure that they remain machine-readable at every step in the supply chain. When shipping goods – some all around the world – the labels are also exposed to fluctuating temperatures and must adhere securely even under demanding climatic conditions. HERMA has now proven that these challenges can also be met with labels made from environmentally friendly recycled material – based on its own selfadhesive material. Best printing results on environmentally friendly paper The HERMAcoat Recycling label paper (grade 236) awarded the „Blue Angel environmental quality seal is made entirely from post-consumer recycled fibres generated from household waste. The natural white slightly glossy coated paper is ideal for sophisticated labels with multi-colour printing and demonstrates very good printing quality in thermal transfer printing. It is therefore ideally suited for barcodes that contain variable data but also for high-quality multi-colouring printing for example for the pre- printing of company logos or for product decoration. HERMA is replacing the previously used HERMAextracoat label paper (grade 242) with the new label paper. „For us this change was only an initial albeit significant step as the total amount of material used is considerable“ states Dr. Nägele. „Further internal changes are in the pipeline. After all sometimes it’s the little things we need to change to make a big
Dover Chemical Issues Price Hike on Organo-Phosphite Additives. Dover Chemical Issues Price Hike on Organo-Phosphite Additives Driven by increases in raw material and freight costs Dover’s price increase includes TNPP used as a process aid in polyolefin packaging. LILLI MANOLIS SHERMAN Senior Editor A 10¢/lb increase on all liquid alkyl and aryl organo-phosphite (esters) including all grades of tris-nonylphenol phosphite (TNPP) has been announced by Dover Chemical Dover Ohio. The increase for these products sold under the Doverphos trade name becomes effective January 15 2021 or as contracts allow. They are primarily used as heat stabilizers for flexible PVC and as process aids for polyolefins. The company attributes the need for the increase to continued increases in both raw material and freight costs on a global basis due to higher operational costs and reduced availability. All orders placed for shipment on or after January 15 2021 will be affected by this increase. Standard lead-time for bulk orders is 8-10 calendar days and lead-time for all packaged goods is 14 calendar days. Business manager for polymer additives Matthew Fender confirms that the company’s newer proprietary high-molecular-weight liquid phosphites Doverphos LGP-11 and LGP-12 are not affected by the increase. Both products have been shown to be excellent replacements for workhorse phosphite TNPP particularly as process aids for polyolefin packaging where purity is an issue. These products contain no alkylphenols have low migration and display excellent color performance compatibility and hydrolytic stability. Additional benefits shown by these products during and after processing and post-processing include excellent gas-fade performance during NOx exposure and heat aging typically contributed by hindered phenolic antioxidants. Both LGP-11 and 12 have FDA food-contact clearance for use with LLDPE and FDA approval for HDPE and PP is also expected in the near term.
Domtar Announces Sale of Personal Care Business to American Industrial Partners for 920M. This transaction represents a milestone in Domtars ongoing portfolio transformation and further advances our strategic initiatives that will position Domtar for a sustainable and successful future. – John Williams President and CEO Domtar. Jan. 8 2021- Domtar today announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Personal Care business to American Industrial Partners (AIP) for $920 million. The sale of Domtars Personal Care business represents the culmination of a process announced on August 7 2020 during which the Company undertook a comprehensive strategic review of value-creating alternatives for the business. With this sale Domtar is reinforcing its focus on building an industry-leading Paper Pulp and Packaging company to deliver long-term shareholder value. This transaction represents a milestone in Domtars ongoing portfolio transformation and further advances our strategic initiatives that will position Domtar for a sustainable and successful future said John D. Williams President and Chief Executive Officer of Domtar. We conducted a thorough review of strategic alternatives for Personal Care and believe the sale maximizes value to Domtar shareholders by allowing us to strengthen our balance sheet enhance liquidity and buy back shares. The robust interest received reflects the excellent work by our team to improve profitability gain new customers and enhance the operating structure and cost profile of the business. We are confident that AIP is the right owner to advance the business and look forward to working with them to execute a smooth and successful transition for the customers and employees of Personal Care. Mr. Williams continued The sale is an important component of our strategic plan and will provide us with additional capital and resources to strengthen and invest in the future of Domtar leading to a more focused business portfolio. We are making solid
Solvay PrinterPrezz partner for 3D medical device design. Solvay PrinterPrezz partner for 3D medical device design Rubber & Plastics News Staff PRINT As technology advances in 3D printing so does the demand for smaller more intricate medical devices. As technology advances in 3D printing so does the demand for smaller more intricate medical devices. To meet this need additive chemical provider Solvay SA will collaborate with PrinterPrezz 3D to design laser sintering solutions for implants and other medical devices. PrinterPrezz of Fremont Calif. known as a medifacturer works in polymer and metal 3D printing nanotechnologies and surgical design to 3D print next-generation medical devices. This partnership will allow us to combine our expertise in materials with PrinterPrezzs unique offering for qualification of medical devices to accelerate the adoption of 3D-printed implants and medical devices using Solvays latest additive manufacturing powder technology for selective laser sintering said Christophe Schramm business manager for Solvay Specialty Polymers global business unit. ADVERTISING Solvay with more than 30 years experience supplying polymers to the medical industry makes the raw materials (like the specialized powder additive used in the laser sintering process) that can withstand exposure to bodily fluids and tissue in the human body. 3D printing is evolving rapidly and is revolutionizing the development of advanced health care applications from concept to manufacturing said Shri Shetty CEO of PrinterPrezz. PrinterPrezz offers engineering clinical and regulatory guidance as well as access to 3D simulation software and 3D printers. We can provide Solvay a gateway for the development and optimization of their highperformance polymeric additive manufacturing powders to advance the manufacturing of next-generation implants and medical devices Shetty said. Recently Solvays venture capital fund Solvay Ventures contributed to PrinterPrezzs recent $16 million equity financing round. By partnering together Solvay and PrinterPrezz will accelerate the advancement of 3D printed medical devices providing better patient outcomes through breakthrough technology said Thomas Canova head of Solvay Ventures.
Univar Solutions Expands Distribution Agreement with Solvay Novecare. Univar Solutions Expands Distribution Agreement with Solvay Novecare Univar Solutions is currently Solvay’s largest distributor of surfactants and additives. December 16 2020 KEYWORDS additives / distributors / general business Order Reprints No Comments Univar Solutions Inc. recently announced an expanded distribution agreement with Solvay Group’s Novecare Coatings and Industrial Process Solutions business units to distribute their coatings products in the U.S. and industrial products in the U.S. and Canada. As the only national distributor for Solvay in the coatings and industrial businesses Univar Solutions reports that it will leverage its reach technical expertise and knowledge in these markets to broaden the availability of Solvay products across the U.S. and Canada. Novecare Coatings chemistries are reportedly used in everything from paints and adhesives to inks and waterborne and architectural coatings. Applications for the industrial product lines include lubricants and metalworking metal cleaning and finishing automotive and chemical manufacturing. Univar Solutions is currently Solvay’s largest distributor of surfactants and additives. “Through our network of solution centers Univar Solutions is well positioned to deliver the functional regulatory and market trend insights needed to help expand business in these important markets said Joshua Hicks vice president of Industrial Solutions at Univar Solutions. “We are excited to be a distributor of Solvay’s Novecare business in the coatings and industrial markets in the United States and Canada and our breadth and depth of knowledge experience and broad market reach make us a strong partner for a world class manufacturer like Solvay. Not only does this agreement continue to strengthen our existing relationship it also allows both of us to better serve these extremely dynamic market segments. “We look forward to working closely with Univar Solutions as part of our expanded agreement helping their customers solve technical challenges and unlocking new business opportunities said Chuck Price vice president of coatings and industrial process solutions at Solvay. “With Univar Solutions sales and technical expertise and dedicated customer service together we are well positioned to help provide customers what they need to develop innovative products in coatings and a variety of industrial markets.
Sappi makes its debut at the virtual 2020 Plastic Free World Summit. Sappi today announced that it will showcase its renewable products at the 2020 Plastic Free... The owners of LignoTech South Africa Borregaard and the Sappi Group have decided to permanently... The annual maintenance shutdown of Metsä Group’s Rauma pulp mill will take place during week... Kotkamills a manufacturer of fully recyclable food service board is currently exploring the possibility of... Cascades announces plans to proceed with the strategic Bear Island mill conversion project located in... Norske Skog’s EBITDA in the third quarter of 2020 was NOK 73 million a slight... Kadant Fiberline (China) Co. Ltd. a subsidiary of Kadant Inc. announced it successfully started up... For the second time Paper Province has succeeded in achieving “gold level of an internationally... Toscotec will supply a second-generation TT SYD Steel Yankee Dryer to the Colombian tissue manufacturer... Valmet will supply a new OptiConcept M container board making line with extensive package of... Even in these difficult circumstances the number and quality of entries for the European Carton... Atlantic Packaging Products Ltd. a leading Canadian manufacturer of containerboard and corrugated packaging products officially... Hamburger Containerboard member of the Prinzhorn group is negotiating the closure of the board machine... On 30 July 2020 in connection to the announcement of Metsä Group’s January-June 2020 results... Babcock & Wilcox announced recently that its B&W Environmental segment will design and supply its... UPM recently celebrated the official start of the construction of the state-of-the-art biochemicals facility in... WestRock Company announced that it plans to reduce its solid bleached sulphate (SBS) mill system... BTG is adding a microwave transmitter to its leading consistency measurement portfolio a technology previously... Commercial Development Company Inc. (CDC) recently announced acquisition of a retired paper manufacturing plant in... The global forest products industry has been making headlines since the COVID-19 pandemic struck at... Page 2 Sappi today announced that it will showcase its renewable products at the 2020 Plastic Free... The owners of LignoTech South Africa Borregaard and the Sappi Group have decided to permanently... The annual maintenance shutdown of Metsä Group’s Rauma pulp mill will take place during week... Kotkamills a manufacturer of fully recyclable food service board is currently exploring the possibility of... Cascades announces plans to proceed with the strategic Bear Island mill conversion project located in... Norske Skog’s EBITDA in the third quarter of 2020 was NOK 73 million a slight... Kadant Fiberline (China) Co. Ltd. a subsidiary of Kadant Inc. announced it successfully started up... For the second time Paper Province has succeeded in achieving “gold level of an internationally... Toscotec will supply a second-generation TT SYD Steel Yankee Dryer to the Colombian tissue manufacturer... Valmet will supply a new OptiConcept M container board making line with extensive package of... Even in these difficult circumstances the number and quality of entries for the European Carton... Atlantic Packaging Products Ltd. a leading Canadian manufacturer of containerboard and corrugated packaging products officially... Hamburger Containerboard member of the Prinzhorn group is negotiating the closure of the board machine... On 30 July 2020 in connection to the announcement of Metsä Group’s January-June 2020 results... Babcock & Wilcox announced recently that its B&W Environmental segment will design and supply its... UPM recently celebrated the official start of the construction of the state-of-the-art biochemicals facility in... WestRock Company announced that it plans to reduce its solid bleached sulphate (SBS) mill system
Plastic conveyor manufacturer expands in KY. Glasgow Ky. — Span Tech LLC which makes plastic chain conveyor systems plans to expand in Barren County Ky. with a $13.2 million investment expected to create 40 fulltime jobs over the next 10 years. The companys investment includes the purchase of 10 acres new equipment and construction of a 100000-square-foot production warehouse and assembly operation according to a Dec. 15 news release from the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development. Work will begin in spring 2021 with the move from its current facility to be completed by early 2022 according to the release. Span Tech opened in Glasgow in 1981 and supplies plastic chain conveyors to food and beverage manufacturing packaging distribution cosmetics pharmaceuticals and ecommerce customers. The company currently employs more than 90.
Maroon Group and BRB International Announce Distribution Deal. Maroon Group announced a new distribution relationship with BRB International a global manufacturer of specialty silicones and silicone additives. Effective immediately Maroon Group will be the exclusive distributor of BRB International’s Specialty Silicone materials for the CASE and Construction Market West of the Rockies. In addition Maroon Group has been granted nonexclusive distribution rights to BRB International’s line of Silane Coupling Agents Silane Crosslinkers Silicone Oils and Silicone OH Polymers. According to the companies BRB International’s innovative silicone chemistry teamed with Maroon Group’s technical sales team formulary support laboratory facilities and global sourcing capabilities will provide unique capabilities to customers across North America. “BRB’s products allow Maroon to continue to offer new solutions to meet the challenges of our customers and allowing them to be successful said Thomas Papasso vice president Principal Management. “With the appointment of Maroon Group we will be strategically positioned to meet the current and future demands of paint coatings inks and construction chemicals industries west of the Rockies in the USA said Michel Bassens sales leader for BRB North America Inc.
Elementis Forms Commercial Agreement with NXTLEVVEL Biochem. Elementis Forms Commercial Agreement with NXTLEVVEL Biochem December 9 2020 KEYWORDS bio-based chemicals Order Reprints No Comments GELEEN Netherlands/LONDON – Representing a progressive approach between two sustainable chemistry leaders Elementis and NXTLEVVEL Biochem have formed a commercial agreement that will enable them to develop manufacture and sell a portfolio of bio-based products. The two companies are gearing up for a launch of two new bio-based solvents for the industrial paint and coatings sector in early 2021. These bio-based solvents can be used as coalescing agents and replace the use of petrochemical-based solvents in product formulations. A privately held company headquartered in The Netherlands NXTLEVVEL is a commercial-scale manufacturer of next-generation biomass-derived chemicals. As a joint venture formed in 2018 NXTLEVVEL brings together the industrial expertise of the Towell Engineering Group (Sultanate of Oman) with advanced technology developed by GFBiochemicals. GFBiochemicals was founded in 2008 and holds 200 patents for its proprietary technology in bio-solvents polyols and plasticizers based on levulinic acid. Elementis is a publicly traded global leader in delivering naturally derived additives for paint and coatings personal care and energy applications. Elementis is also a leading provider of water-based systems and solutions that replace traditional solvent-based formulations while maintaining performance in application. “Elementis is extremely fortunate to have identified such a nimble and innovative company as NXTLEVVEL as one of our green technology development and manufacturing partners. Teaming up with NXTLEVVEL enables Elementis to advance our goal of delivering sustainable high-performance materials for all customers and industry sectors that we support on a global basis faster and better. Together we have the potential of being game changers in the bio-based specialty chemicals category said Joseph Lupia Senior Vice President for Research and Development with Elementis. Through this agreement Elementis and NXTLEVVEL will capitalize on their respective strengths to launch environmentally sustainable industrial additives. NXTLEVVEL will develop and manufacture bio-solvents which Elementis will market sell and support to the coatings industry globally. “NXTLEVVEL and Elementis are joining forces to bring solutions to address the massive problem of climate change around the world and it takes highly motivated and passionate individuals with both privately held and publicly traded companies with vision to effect positive change said Mathieu Flamini co-founder of GFBiochemicals and former premier league soccer player. GFBiochemicals’ technology is highly innovative proprietary and for the first time allows production of levulinate derivatives at industrial scale. The cornerstone is biomass-derived levulinic acid and its esters the patented technology from GFBiochemicals that enables the production of bio-based solvents and other bio-based chemicals.
EP Minerals Taps Lintech as its Distribution Partner for Filtration and Filler Products - American Coatings Association. EP Minerals Taps Lintech as its Distribution Partner for Filtration and Filler Products — https://www.paint.org/ep-minerals-taps-lintech-as-its-distribution-partner-for-ltration-and- ller-products/ EP Minerals a U.S. Silica Company signed an agreement with Lintech International LLC a This website uses cookies in order to improve and customize your browsing experience. By continuing you consent to the use of cookies for analytic and functional purposes as discussed in the Types of Information Collected section of our Privacy Policy. Accept — # Reject — # Privacy policy — https://www.paint.org/legal/privacy-policy/ 12/11/2020 EP Minerals Taps Lintech as its Distribution Partner for Filtration and Filler Products - American Coatings Association https://www.paint.org/ep-minerals-taps-lintech-as-its-distribution-partner-for-filtration-and-filler-products/ 2/2 Related Content Hollow Thermoplastic Microspheres in Elastomeric Cool Roof Coatings — https://www.paint.org/coatingstechmagazine/articles/hollowthermoplastic-microspheres-inelastomeric-cool-roof-coatings/ Update: State Regulation of VOCs in Consumer Products — https://www.paint.org/consumerstate-regs/ An Update on Sustainability in the Coatings Industry — https://www.paint.org/coatingstechmagazine/articles/an-update-onsustainability-in-the-coatingsindustry/ national distributor of specialty chemicals to manage its portfolio of ltration and ller products in specic U.S. markets. The agreement went into effect Sept. 2. Lintech has been awarded an exclusive territory in the Southeastern U.S. for ne ller products and non-exclusive territory for ltration products. The agreement also includes non-exclusive sales regions in the Southwest West and Midwest where Lintech will represent ller products. According to the companies the product portfolio includes EP Minerals’ wide range of diatomaceous earth and perlite ltration and ller products including Celatom® CelaPerl® and CelaBrew®. The agreement also provides opportunities for the distribution of U.S. Silica’s White Armor® cool roof granules and EverWhite™ cristobalite products which are used in numerous applications including solar reective roong engineered quartz countertops and highperformance coatings.
Niacet launches clean label ProNiaturèl range with three innovative products – Innovations Food. Niacet launches clean label ProNiaturèl range with three innovative products DECEMBER 8 2020 BY INNOVATIONS ADMIN Global provider of food safety and shelf life extension ingredients Niacet announced the introduction of their clean label range of ingredients for microbial control – ProNiaturèl. The new range oers manufacturers looking to produce clean label products pure transparent and eective ingredient alternatives to chemical preservation ingredients. Today’s consumer is increasingly concerned with what goes into their food with more and more people actively seeking out ‘free-from’ products with natural claims. The new ProNiaturèl range answers this demand with a variety of eective microbial control products all entirely clean label. The first product launched in the ProNiaturèl line – ProNiaturèl Nc – is designed specifically for baked goods. Utilizing pure calcium vinegar salts to control mold growth and extend shelf-life it can be labeled as Subscribe Subscribe email address Search … ? Text layer Join Our Mailing List Innovations Food Innovations in Food Technology 12/11/2020 Niacet launches clean label ProNiaturèl range with three innovative products – Innovations Food https://innovationsfood.com/niacet-launches-clean-label-proniaturel-range-with-three-innovative-products/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_… 2/16 neutralized vinegar dry vinegar or vinegar salt. When trialed using baked goods a low dosage of ProNiaturèl Nc was found to inhibit mold growth over an extended shelf-life period and also performed best in a sensory evaluation of aroma taste and aertaste compared to a control group and other standard preservatives such as calcium propionate and wheat ferments. The other two products currently in the ProNiaturèl line – ProNiaturèl N and ProNiaturèl Ns – are targeting applications in the areas of processed meat poultry and fish products as well as plant-protein based meat replacers and spreads and sauces. Both products utilize the long-known eects of vinegar against bacterial spoilage and therefore assure shelf-life and food safety. Both ProNiaturèl N and ProNiaturèl Ns are based on natural vinegar and are fully neutralized meaning they can be labeled as neutralized vinegar dry vinegar or vinegar salt. Multiple external trials and challenge tests have proven the eicacy of both products and sensory evaluations have shown no impact on smell taste and structure. Due to the high purity and proven eicacy of vinegar salts the use-levels of ProNiaturèl N and ProNiaturèl Ns are low – lower than with most clean label products – and therefore cost-eective. Oering unparalleled eicacy all products in the ProNiaturèl range are produced as a free-flowing powder or granulate to reduce transportation and storage costs and help maintain a greener carbon footprint. Plus as part of our commitment to providing transparent clean label ingredients all products in the ProNiaturèl range will undergo C-14 analysis ensuring the product is made from only fermented vinegar and free from any unwanted additional chemical elements like petrochemicals that can occur in other fermentation processes. Niacet’s ProNiaturèl oers transparency purity and integrity throughout the entire portfolio. Je Rogers COO at Niacet explains “The key behind the new ProNiaturèl range is in its transparency. We begin the process by using straightforward familiar ingredients from which we create consumer-friendly antimicrobials – perfect for clean label solutions. The first product innovations in the new range are designed for two applications areas: ProNiaturèl Nc for bakery goods and ProNiaturèl N and Ns for meat
Optimization of Waterborne Coatings _ 2020-12-09 _ PCI Magazine. Optimization of Waterborne Coatings Racing Towards a Sustainable Future and Aligning with a Circular Economy Some countries and world organizations are taking it upon themselves to make the world more sustainable. The United Nations for instance introduced its initiative “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development a plan that highlights 17 UN goals for decreasing the carbon footprint. In the current scenario industries face a big challenge This website requires certain cookies to work and uses other cookies to help you have the best experience. By visiting this website certain cookies have already been set which you may delete and block. By closing this message or continuing to use our site you agree to the use of cookies. Visit our updated privacy and cookie policy to learn more. ? / Shweta Chauhan and Anuj Johri to provide eco-friendly and sustainable products that have the same coating properties of current products. To work in such a direction global trends and businesses must be aligned in efforts toward sustainability and concern for humanity. Sustainable coatings inks and adhesives must be migration harmless and comply with all four technical requirements of primary food packaging which are: Low odor Low swelling Low-migration/migration harmless 3R Principle: - Recycle Reduce and Reuse. In order to implement green printing 3R is the basic foundation. The linear economy “take make dispose of production model is no longer useful and a fundamental shift is needed towards a more circular and low-carbon model. The circular economy is the key element in the transition to a more sustainable economy. Its goal is to promote eco-friendlier and more conscious consumption and production and encourage the repair reuse and recycling of products. To make this vision a reality companies need to follow a future path towards eco-friendly production by using waste as a resource. The circular economy of food packaging is important to distinguish between the biosphere and technosphere. In the biosphere circularity for packaging focuses on decomposition in the technosphere the focus is on recycling. By making these distinctions the industry can more effectively understand the impacts that different recycling loops have on the natural world whether these be open-loop closed-loop or simply down cycling. Circular Economy Advantages Reduction in resource and energy use Reduction in waste generation through eco-design and eco-innovation Stimulating innovation Contribution to the ght against climate change In a circular economy the goal is to eliminate waste and maximize the continual use of resources. Think of it as a loop that focuses on reusing sharing repairing remanufacturing and recycling resources to minimize waste and pollution. For the printing industry it is about creating a sustainable green printing process that considers inks materials production efciency waste and recycling. To achieve the goal of sustainable products and maintain a circular economy various ink manufacturers and printers are working toward a green printing process
Braskem bets on growing demand for bioplastics _ Financial Times. In the vast sugarcane fields of Brazil Latin America’s largest petrochemicals company found the ingredient for a greener vision of plastics. More than a decade ago Braskem began taking ethanol derived from fermenting the crop to make a type of polymer it says is more sustainable than conventional versions based on fossil fuels. Today the São Paulo-based company is a leader in the niche but expanding field of bioplastics. As public concerns rise about climate change these materials are predicted to play a bigger role in packaging and manufactured goods. Walmir Soller chief executive at Braskem Europe & Asia says using a plant-based raw material helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Chemicals B
Brenntag and CheMondis Announce Collaboration. Brenntag and CheMondis Announce Collaboration November 4 2020 ESSEN Germany/COLOGNE Germany — Brenntag a market leader in chemical and ingredients distribution and CheMondis a leading B2B online marketplace for chemicals in Europe announced a cooperation to jointly accelerate digital sales and marketing for the chemical industry. Both companies recognize the increasing importance of online sales channels for the chemical industry and agreed to collaborate in this field. The collaboration will start with making Brenntag’s leading portfolio for paints and coatings and adhesives and sealants gradually available for online purchase on CheMondis in the German market. “Over the last two years Brenntag has steadily built our Brenntag Connect ecommerce platform. The platform is now live in most of our mature markets. We see a strong upward trend in online business and with this complementary cooperation we extend our digital channels further said Maarten Stramrood CDO at Brenntag. “Our collaboration with CheMondis will provide our current and potential customers an even broader choice. “At CheMondis we are excited to welcome the world’s leading distributor Brenntag as a new partner. It is a strong sign that online sales are becoming an increasingly important strategic component in the chemical industry said Sebastian Brenner Managing Director of CheMondis. “Customers in our industry are demanding an online buying experience and CheMondis provides for that need.
Brenntag and CheMondis Announce Cooperation in Digital Sales and Marketing for Chemicals. Brenntag and CheMondis Announce Cooperation in Digital Sales and Marketing for Chemicals The collaboration will start with making Brenntag’s portfolio for paints coatings adhesives and sealants gradually available for online purchase on CheMondis in the German market. November 5 2020 Brenntag and CheMondis a B2B online marketplace for chemicals in Europe recently announced an agreement to jointly accelerate digital sales and marketing for the chemical industry. Both companies recognize the increasing importance of online sales channels for the chemical industry and agreed to collaborate in this field. The collaboration will start with making Brenntag’s portfolio for paints coatings adhesives and sealants gradually available for online purchase on CheMondis in the German market. “Over the last two years Brenntag has steadily built our Brenntag Connect ecommerce platform said Maarten Stramrood CDO at Brenntag. “The platform is now live in most of our mature markets. We see a strong upward trend in online business and with this complementary cooperation we extend our digital channels further. Our collaboration with CheMondis will provide our current and potential customers an even broader choice. “At CheMondis we are excited to welcome the world’s leading distributor Brenntag as a new partner said Sebastian Brenner CheMondis’ managing director. “It is a strong sign that online sales are becoming an increasingly important strategic component in the chemical industry. Customers in our industry are demanding an online buying experience and CheMondis provides for that need.
IFS Coatings Introduces PureClad FFT. IFS Coatings Introduces PureClad Coatings World staff10.20.20 IFS Coatings is introducing IFS PureClad FFT a high-performance powder coating for non-metal substrates that delivers a smooth beautiful flexible finish in just one layer and with a robust production process that takes just 7 to 10 minutes to complete. The flagship of the IFS PureClad range PureClad FFT incorporates a game-changing approach to powder coating chemistry that delivers exceptional flow for a beautiful smooth finish incredible flexibility and excellent physical properties such as first-class adhesion and crack chip mar moisture and stain resistance. PureClad FFT overcomes the challenges traditionally associated with powder coating non-metal substrates and has been designed with coaters and consumers in mind. PureClad FFT has been developed to offer manufacturers and professional coaters a robust new coating solution to equip their businesses for the 21st century said Chris Reding director Alternate Substrates. We understand that coaters need a repeatable finishing process that is easy to apply maximizes productivity and improves end-product value – all with an approach that is environmentally responsible. Likewise we understand that manufacturers want to offer their customers world class aesthetic and performance options which PureClad world-classs with an array of colors textures and in-demand features such as anti-microbial properties.
October pricing surprise for PVC PET resins. October pricing surprise for PVC PET resins FRANK ESPOSITO Plastics News Staff North American prices for suspension PVC and PET bottle resin have increased since Oct. 1. PVC prices are up 6.5 cents per pound with PET prices seeing a 4-cent hike. Both moves were somewhat surprising to buyers since they go against seasonal trends for those materials. Business is very strong inventory is very low and exports are booming an executive at a PVC resin firm said. The last two months for [vinyl] siding have been the strongest since 2010. The executive added that owners are investing in their homes or moving from cities to suburbs or rural areas in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Low interest rates also are helping homebuyers. Construction-related uses account for around 60 percent of PVC consumption in the U.S. and Canada. The PVC increase is the fifth consecutive monthly hike. Prices were up 5.5 cents in September and now have climbed 20 cents since June. Market sources said some of that amount could be given back later this year or in early 2021. PVC makers Formosa Plastics and Westlake Chemical have force majeure sales limits in place although those limits are expected to be removed in November. Almost 2.1 billion pounds of annual capacity for PVC feedstock VCM operated by Westlake in Lake Charles La. remains down because of the impact of Hurricanes Laura and Delta in August and October. PET prices were up 4 cents in October after rising 2 cents in September. The beverageheavy PET market doesnt often see price increases in cooler months. The 4-cent hike was the result of minor price increases for paraxylene and PTA feedstocks combined with a surcharge from PET makers to cover spot buys of monoethylene glycol (MEG) feedstock and higher freight costs according to Mark Kallman a market analyst with Resin Technology Inc. in Fort Worth Texas.
Resolute Forest Products Appoints of Remi Lalonde as President and CEO. Nov. 5 2020 - Resolute Forest Products today announced that after a 39-year distinguished career with Resolute Yves Laflamme will be stepping down and retiring as of March 1 2021. The board of directors has unanimously selected and appointed Remi G. Lalonde as the companys next President and Chief Executive Officer effective on the same date. Lalonde 44 currently serves as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Upon becoming President and CEO Lalonde will be appointed to Resolutes board of directors. The announcement today coincides with Resolutes third quarter 2020 results. The Resolute board of directors enthusiastically supports Remi Lalondes selection as the companys next president and CEO. He has an outstanding track record of success as well as strength of character and exemplary personal integrity. Remis superior leadership skills demonstrated on a range of strategic initiatives have consistently impressed the board stated Bradley P. Martin chairman of the board of directors. As President and CEO Yves Laflamme advanced Resolutes strategic transformation divesting noncore assets and using the proceeds for debt repayment organic growth in the companys pulp business and acquisition of three sawmills in the southern United States. Recent results in Resolutes tissue business reflect Mr. Laflammes commitment to continuous improvement. He has been a steadfast supporter in the development of internal talent building a strong crop of future company leaders. During the COVID-19 pandemic Laflamme has guided the company in exceedingly difficult times while generously supporting the communities in which employees work and live. Laflamme invested in the development of sustainable biomaterials highlighting the added value Resolute brings to fiber. He has also remained committed to expansion of the companys state-of-the-art Toundra Greenhouse joint venture doubling its future production capacity. Laflamme is expected to continue to support the company and Lalonde in an advisory capacity after March 1 2021 working on specific mandates. Remi Lalonde commented I am honored to succeed Yves Laflamme as Resolutes next president and CEO. I first want to thank the board and our shareholders for their confidence in offering me the opportunity to assume the leadership of this company. I also want to thank Yves for his support and guidance. In my capacity as CFO I am fortunate to work in partnership with Yves and I sincerely appreciate the trust he has placed in me with important projects and the leadership role he has had me play in our overall development. Lalonde has been with Resolute for 11 years rising through a series of successive roles in corporate manufacturing and senior leadership. He has been serving as the companys senior vice president and chief financial officer since November 2018 after serving briefly as vice president for strategy M&A business development and procurement. Before then he was general manager for two and a half years at Resolutes Thunder Bay Ontario pulp paper and power complex. He initially joined the company
Wacker to spend $51M on new regional HQ. Ann Arbor Mich. — Wacker Chemical Corp. will build a new $51 million innovation center and regional headquarters for its North American operations in Michigan. The company which has been considering construction of a new location for quite some time expects to be operational at the site starting in 2022. The new project in Pittsfield Charter Township near Ann Arbor is expected to add 70 new jobs over time according to the state of Michigan. Capacity at the new headquarters will be more than 300 employees which will include workers relocating from Wackers current regional headquarters in Adrian Mich. as well as the new jobs to be created over the next five years. The location is going to be heavily focused on innovation and R&D and the jobs we will be looking for will be focused in that area a Wacker spokeswoman said. Were an innovative company. Were looking for the latest in technology leaders. Were excited about the talent in that community. The company expects to move about 225 employees from Adrian beginning in the second quarter of 2022. There will be capacity for about 300 workers at the new site and the company expects to add to the employment ranks in the years to come. We do plan to expand in the coming years. Our current headquarters are onsite with our operations in Adrian the spokeswoman said. Were definitely maintaining our operations there. But we also had moved into that location in 1965. It was time to look for a new headquarters location for the region. Manufacturing of elastomers silicone fluids and silicone emulsions will continue in Adrian as about two-thirds of that locations current employees will remain there. Michigan competed against locations in Tennessee and Ohio for the new project the state said. Michigan really has one of the best talent bases in the nation in terms of just the potential for recruiting for our technical positions and our R&D focus. I think if we would have to say that would be the ultimate driver in electing to stay close to home the spokeswoman said. This will allow the company to network and recruit from what CEO David Wilhoit described in a statement as a highly educated and skilled talent base. Our new facility will enable future growth in the state and serve as an important anchor for our operations across North America. This area is one of the nations leading communities for R&D he said. Wacker is receiving a $1 million grant from the Michigan Business Development Program through the Michigan Strategic Fund as part of the project. Pittsfield Charter Township located just south of Ann Arbor is providing a 50-percent property tax cut to attract the new construction.
Klöckner Pentaplast adds thermoforming for food trays in West Virginia. Klöckner Pentaplast adds thermoforming for food trays in West Virginia Klöckner Pentaplast Group has picked its Beaver W.Va. plant as the location for a multimillion-dollar investment to add extrusion and thermoforming capacity for postconsumer PET. The company also announced a $68 million expansion of two existing plants in Virginia: in Gordonsville and Rural Retreat. West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice announced the thermoforming project on Nov. 16 in a virtual news conference. The Montabaur Germany-based company established the Beaver facility in 2000. The company said it chose to expand in West Virginia due to Beavers proximity to customers local workforce availability and regional transportation infrastructure. ADVERTISING The project includes upgrades to an existing extrusion line and the addition of thermoforming equipment and it will create 21 full-time jobs. Office of W est Virginia Gov. Jim Justice West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice speaks at a virtual news confer ence. Weve been honored to be part of West Virginias economy these last 20 years and look forward to continuing our partnership with the state for many years to come Mark Gonyar director of business development at Klöckner Pentaplast said in a news conference. Klöckner Pentaplast CEO Scott Tracey had foreshadowed the investment in August when he said the company planned to add about 17500 metric tons of capacity including special supercleaning technology to one of its North American factories. At the time he said the company was still deciding which of its eight North American sites would be best suited to support the thermoforming project. The expansion of both the Beaver and Rural Retreat plants support growth in KPs Smartcycle films which contain post-consumer content and Elite- and Evolve-brand trays for the fresh protein industry. The Rural Retreat plant already makes Smartcycle films. Following the upgrades the Beaver plant will also produce Smartcycle. According to the company demand for food trays using post-consumer PET is being driven by consumers wanting more curbside recycling options and support for closed-loop packaging. In Virginia KP is adding 28 jobs in Gordonsville and 26 in Rural Retreat according to a news release from Gov. Ralph Northam.
Resin producer plans huge increase in PCR sales. Braskem works with both mechanical and chemical recycling processors to produce its PCR. | StanislauV/Shutterstock Polyolefins giant Braskem has set its sights on expanding post-consumer resin production as part of the company’s new sustainability commitments. The Brazil-headquartered company this month announced a goal to sell 300000 tons of recycled-content products by 2025 increasing that to 1 million tons by 2030. The goals refer to Braskem’s “I’m green portfolio which in 2019 was expanded to include 100% post-consumer PP. Previously this line of products was focused on bio-based polymers as well as mixtures of bio-based material and recycled content. The new commitments represent a substantial increase from the company’s current PCR sales volume. According to the company’s 2019 annual report that year “a total of 1651 tons of post-consumer resin were produced and sold representing 8.2% of the target for 2020. Braskem a major prime PP producer was a founding member of the Polypropylene Recycling Coalition a group focused on increasing recovery of the resin. The company works with both mechanical and chemical recycling processors to produce its PCR according to the 2019 annual report and it is researching additional recycling technologies. This week for example Braskem completed an expansion of its U.S. Innovation and Technology Center. This facility will “support Braskem’s innovation goals especially in the critical areas of circular economy sustainability recycling as well as additive manufacturing the company wrote.
Resolute Forest Products Reports Preliminary Third Quarter 2020 Results. We took advantage of the rally in lumber prices to further deleverage the balance sheet and drive shareholder value by opportunistically repurchasing 5% of outstanding shares. – Yves Laflamme President and CEO of Resolute Forest Products. Nov. 5 2020 - Resolute Forest Products Inc. today reported net income for the quarter ended September 30 2020 of $57 million or $0.66 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $43 million or $0.47 per share in the same period in 2019. Sales were $730 million in the quarter an increase of $25 million from the year-ago period. Excluding special items the company reported net income of $62 million or $0.72 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $34 million or $0.37 per share in the third quarter of 2019. We took advantage of the rally in lumber prices to further deleverage the balance sheet and drive shareholder value by opportunistically repurchasing 5% of outstanding shares said Yves Laflamme president and chief executive officer. While the pulp and paper segments continue to suffer from pandemic economics we used part of the cash we generated with our lumber business to fully repay all revolving borrowings under our credit facilities except for the low-interest term loan used to finance the acquisition of the U.S. sawmills which have generated $38 million of EBITDA under our ownership this year. The tissue business is also picking up steam: with $6 million of EBITDA in the quarter it has generated $19 million of EBITDA in the last twelve months. Operating Income Variance Against Prior Period Consolidated The company reported operating income of $97 million in the quarter compared to $6 million in the second quarter. The $91 million improvement over the previous quarter reflects the favorable impact of higher lumber pricing ($117 million) offset by higher stumpage fees with the increase in lumber pricing ($5 million) and lower market pulp prices ($7 million). Segment Operating Income Variance As of the second quarter 2020 the companys results from the newsprint and specialty papers segments have been combined into one paper segment. Comparative information including the information in this earnings release has been modified to conform with the revised segment presentation. Market Pulp The market pulp segment recorded an operating loss of $4 million in the quarter compared to operating income of $10 million in the previous quarter. The change reflects a $26 per metric ton or 4% slip in the average transaction price on softer market conditions and an increase of $27 per metric ton or 5% in the operating cost per unit (the delivered cost) due mostly to higher planned maintenance costs. Shipments improved by 15000 metric tons and finished goods inventory fell to 71000 metric tons at quarter-end. EBITDA in the segment was $2 million. Tissue The company reported operating income of $2 million in the tissue segment in the quarter $4 million better than the previous quarter. The average transaction price rose by 4% or $71 per short ton in the quarter primarily as a result of the companys ongoing progress around customer and product mix. But shipments slipped by 3000 short tons in the quarter as a result of increasingly challenging conditions in away-from-home end-markets due to the effects of the pandemic. Delivered cost per unit fell by $55 per short ton or 3% as a result of lower maintenance costs compared to annual outages in the previous quarter. Finished goods inventory at quarter-end was 6000 short tons. Quarter-over-quarter segment EBITDA improved by $3 million to $6 million. Wood Products The wood products segment reported operating income of $128 million in the quarter an improvement of $113 million compared to the previous quarter. The significant improvement is due to the $217 per thousand board feet or 57% increase in average transaction price reflecting strong market conditions particularly from the repair and remodeling market and U.S. housing starts. The delivered cost rose by $6 per thousand board feet or 2% to $361 per thousand board feet mostly due to higher stumpage fees which track lumber market prices. Shipments rose by 16 million board feet and inventory was unchanged at 121 million board feet. EBITDA in the segment improved by $114 million to $139 million with the recently-acquired U.S. sawmills contributing $31 million to our EBITDA in the quarter. Paper The company generated an operating loss of $12 million in the paper segment in the quarter unchanged from the previous quarter. Despite the challenging market conditions for marketingdependent products like newspapers inserts flyers and commercial papers the average transaction price improved slightly in the quarter to $594 per metric ton or 1% and inventory fell by 5%. Shipments were unchanged at 351000 metric tons reflecting the companys leaner production footprint implemented to cope with the dramatic reduction in economic activity during the pandemic. The delivered cost was stable. EBITDA in the segment improved by $2 million to $6 million. Consolidated Quarterly Operating Income Variance Against Year-Ago Period The company reported operating income of $97 million in the third quarter compared to an operating loss of $18 million in the third quarter of 2019. The $115 million increase reflects the favorable impact of higher selling prices for wood products ($104 million) contribution from the recently-acquired U.S. sawmills ($26 million) lower maintenance costs ($22 million) and the weaker Canadian dollar ($8 million). These items were partly offset by the effects of lower selling prices and fewer shipments in the market pulp and paper segments ($52 million) due to softer market conditions. Adjusted EBITDA of $140 million was $117 million higher than the third quarter of 2019. Corporate and Finance The company generated $100 million of cash from operating activities in the quarter and invested $16 million net in fixed assets. It also repurchased 4.5 million shares of common stock or 5% of the amount outstanding for $18 million and further reduced borrowings under its credit facilities by $69 million. The companys liquidity improved by $81 million in the quarter to $477 million and net debt fell by $62 million to $541 million. By quarter-end the company had recorded cumulative softwood lumber duty deposits of $214 million on the balance sheet including $20 million paid in the quarter. Yesterday the companys subsidiary Resolute FP Canada Inc. entered into a 10-year secured delayed term loan facility with Investissement Québec for up to $167 million (CA $220 million) with an initial availability of approximately $114 million (CA $149 million) subject to certain conditions. Borrowings under the Canadian dollar-denominated facility will bear interest at a floating rate of interest equal to 1.45% above Canadian Bankers acceptance rate. The facility is meant to be used to finance activities and support obligations in Quebec. Outlook Looking ahead Mr. Laflamme added: Together with our strong Canadian lumber business the welltimed acquisition of U.S. sawmills positioned us well for the recent spike in lumber prices. Although market prices have come off their highs in recent weeks the demand from the repair & remodeling sector as well as robust U.S. housing starts speak to strong market fundamentals. Accordingly we are preparing our El Dorado Arkansas sawmill to be restarted in the next few months. Following a very difficult stretch of over six months there are signs that paper markets activity is slowly and gradually starting to recover but we expect that the pandemic will have caused some measure of step-change in the secular demand decline trend. In the last quarter pulp markets were also affected by the pandemic but we are already seeing global inventories stabilize around balanced levels and we are cautiously optimistic that markets will recover with overall economic conditions. In regards to tissue we will continue to focus on customer portfolio optimization and productivity improvements. While retail end-market conditions remain strong the away-from-home space which represents about a third of our business is under pressure due to the drop in commercial activity. Resolute Forest Products (NYSE: RFP) (TSX: RFP) is a global leader in the forest products industry with a diverse range of products including market pulp tissue wood products newsprint and specialty papers which are marketed in close to 70 countries. The company owns or operates some 40 facilities as well as power generation assets in the United States and Canada. Resolute has third-party certified 100% of its managed woodlands to internationally recognized sustainable forest management standards. For further information visit: www.resolutefp.com. SOURCE: Resolute Forest Products Inc.
WestRock Reports 4Q 2020 Fiscal Results. WestRock Company announced results for its fiscal fourth quarter and year ended Sept. 30 2020. Net sales of $4.5 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 increased sequentially by 5.6% and decreased by 3.9% compared to the prior year quarter. Packaging volumes increased sequentially 6.9% and 2.4% compared to the prior year quarter. WestRock reported a loss of $4.45 per diluted share and adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.73 compared sequentially to $0.69 of earnings per diluted share and $0.76 of adjusted earnings per diluted share. The company generated net cash provided by operating activities of $732 million and adjusted free cash flow of $631 million. For the full fiscal year WestRock generated net cash provided by operating activities of $2.07 billion and adjusted free cash flow of $1.15 billion its fifth consecutive year generating more than $1 billion of net cash provided by operating activities and adjusted free cash flow. The company invested $978 million in capital expenditures including $361 million in strategic capital projects returned $345 million to stockholders through dividends and reduced total debt by $633 million and adjusted net debt by $813 million. Total debt was $9.43 billion at Sept. 30 2020. “The WestRock team rose to the challenges of the operating environment in fiscal 2020 and delivered solid financial results strong cash flow and substantial debt reduction said CEO Steve Voorhees. “While the environment remains uncertain we are seeing strong trends in key end markets and continue to successfully partner with our customers to meet their growing needs for sustainable fiberbased packaging solutions. We have positive momentum for strong performance in fiscal year 2021.
Advanced Polymer Inc. Offers AS -342 Emulsion for Auto Marine Markets. Coatings World staff11.18.20 APS-342 from Advanced Polymer Inc. is a silicone resin/silane oligomer emulsion for auto/marine aftermarket applications. APS-342 is a waterborne reactive silicone resin/silane oligomer emulsion that provides enhancement hydrophobicity protection and durability when added to aftermarket automotive and marine care formulations. Ideal for detailers paint sealants spray coatings and others. Onc
Food Ingredients Weekly Roundup - Univar extends plant pased ingredient distribution.... 20 Nov 2020 --- This week in business news Univar Solutions became the appointed distributor of Evergrain’s plant-based ingredients in multiple regions. Healy Group also revealed a new distribution agreement for its PrimaTex pea protein ingredient. Also this week Tesco took action to hit net zero in the UK by 2035 and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 2020 gave recognition to Coca-Cola HBC and General Mills. In brief: Business moves Univar Solutions has announced that Evergrain Ingredients has selected Univar Solutions to distribute its portfolio of plant-based ingredients for food beverage and nutraceutical products in the US and Canada and various countries in Europe the Middle East and Africa. The Evergrain product range derived from barley grains further expands Univar Solutions’ offerings of plant-based food and nutraceutical products across these regions. Healy Group revealed a collaboration with Th. Geyer Ingredients for distribution of its textured pea protein range PrimaTex. The deal with Germany-based Th. Geyer Ingredients covers the supply of PrimaTex to several territories across mainland Europe including Germany France and the Netherlands. The agreement is part of the company’s broader expansion plan to introduce EU-origin textured plant proteins to a wider audience. Manufactured in the UK using EU-grown materials PrimaTex is a sustainable allergen-free alternative protein with a reduced carbon footprint. Univar Solutions is the appointed distributor of Evergrains plant-based ingredients in multiple regions.To help bring forward its ambition to become net zero in the UK by 2035 15 years earlier than planned Tesco is taking new action to help tackle the two most significant emissions sources in the UK – electricity production and transport. The UK retailer is launching a new partnership with renewable energy investor Low Carbon that will create three new solar farms in the UK that will generate up to 130GWh of energy per year and help Tesco procure more renewable energy with additionality for the grid. In brief: Recognition & awards The 2020 Dow Jones Sustainability Index – one of the world’s leading global sustainability benchmarks – has again rated Coca-Cola HBC as Europe’s most sustainable beverage company. This is the seventh time in eight years that the company has been ranked number one in Europe and with its highest-ever score is ranked number two globally – its 10th successive year in the top three. For the third consecutive year General Mills has been named to both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the North American Index by Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and S&P Global. General Mills ranked in the 90th percentile overall and secured industry-best scores of 100 in health and nutrition environmental reporting and water-related risks. Symrise has received an award recognizing its commitment to sustainability from DQS. The Holzmindenbased company is one of the recipients of the “Sustainability Heroes Awards 2020. The German Society for Sustainability in short DQS presented these awards during an online conference held from November 2 to 4. With this award DQS recognizes companies at the forefront of sustainability. A total of eight companies received the seal. Symrise convinced the jury with its strategy for the environment and society in particular. In brief: Appointments Pete Headridge will become the new CEO of the Campden BRI Group following Chris Huscroft’s retirement on January 1 2021. Huscroft joined Campden BRI in October 2018 as Director of Technology before becoming director of the Centre of Technical Excellence and then COO before becoming chief executive in January this year. In brief: Other highlights Kalsec is opening a new warehouse in the Netherlands. The new facility will enhance the supply of products to customers across continental Europe providing a smooth transition through Brexit and growth opportunities beyond. Located in the municipality of Waalwijk near the town of ‘s-Hertogenbosch the new 800-square meter warehouse provides Kalsec with both ambient and cold storage facilities. With convenient transport links from Rotterdam’s port to the rest of continental Europe the new warehouse will provide increased localized supply to customers on the continent. Algaia has been testing the efficacy of seaweed-based biostimulants and in particular its Alganact EVP range to promote the growth of leeks and reduce the use of chemical fungicides. The study is conducted in partnership with Sileban a local experimental station on vegetables and Labéo a regional R&D laboratory. After several seasons of tests results should be made available in 2021.Belgian pork remained virus-free and is suitable for consumption and export. Everytable a US-based mission-driven food company has closed US$16 million in Series B funding. The round was led by investment company Creadev. In the wake of the health and economic crisis fueled by the COVID-19 pandemic the organization has redoubled its efforts to address food insecurity. Other investors in the round include Candide Group Gratitude Railroad Ventures Desert Bloom Food Ventures and Kimball Musk. On October 26 the Philippine Government published a memorandum order to lift the temporary ban on importing domestic pigs and their products from Belgium. The order took immediate effect. Just over two years after the African swine fever (ASF) outbreak in wild boar in Belgium the Philippines is the first primary Asian market to re-open for European Pork from Belgium – a reward for Belgium’s successful ASF approach. The Philippine Government has determined two important export conditions for Belgium which Belgium will scrupulously respect: • The meat has to come from animals born in an AVP-free zone or stayed in such a zone for at least three months. • The animals must be slaughtered in an officially recognized slaughterhouse where they must undergo a complimentary inspection ante- and post-mortem. All domestic swine in the initially infected zone have been eradicated under the Belgian Government’s supervision and the re-population of farms in this zone remains forbidden. Finally the UK pig industry has continued to reduce its use of antibiotics with the latest figures showing a 5 percent fall in the first half of the year. Between January 1 and June 30 this year antibiotic usage dropped from 110 mg/PCU to 104 mg/PCU – marking a significant step toward the 99 mg/PCU target set in 2017. The data captured through the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board (AHDB)’s electronic medicine book (eMB Pigs) represents 95 percent of slaughter pigs during the first six months of 2020. Industry leaders have welcomed the latest figures saying it is a testament to pig producers’ hard work and vets across the country.
Cargill ramps up segregated sustainable palm oil capacity in North America. Cargill ramps up segregated sustainable palm oil capacity in North America 12 Nov 2020 --- Cargill is aiming to become one of North America’s first large-scale suppliers of segregated palm oil certified by the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). The term “segregated indicates that certified palm oil is kept separate from conventional palm oil throughout the supply chain. Beginning in December 2020 all palm oil production from the company’s Charlotte North Carolina US refinery will be solely dedicated to providing the sustainably sourced product. “Palm oil plays a critical role in feeding and supporting millions as it is the world’s most widely used vegetable oil says Reid Kinde North American commercial leader for Cargill’s global edible oils business. As of December all palm oil production from Cargill’s North Carolina refinery in the US will be solely dedicated to sustainably sourced palm oil.“With growing numbers of brands pledging to source palm oil responsibly we are now positioned to supply North American food manufacturers with sufficient quantities of segregated RSPOcertified product to meet their sustainability commitments. The expanded supply means consumers may soon see the sustainable palm oil used in many food staples including bakery snacks confectionery and dairy as well as popular non-dairy creamers. Product transparency is notably a theme that will continue to steer consumer demand into the coming years. “Transparency Triumphs was recently crowned as Innova Market Insights’ Top Trend for 2021 with a renewed interest in technologies like invisible barcodes and near-field communication devices that help boost product traceability significantly. Certifying traceability across an expansive supply chain Segregated certified palm oil must be produced according to the principles and criteria established by the RSPO which verifies that forests are protected and social and environmental safeguards are met during the oil’s production and harvest. To carry the segregated RSPO designation certified palm oil must be kept separate from commodity palm oil supplies and be traceable throughout the supply chain. This product must be produced on RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil plantations refined at RSPOcertified facilities and ultimately used by a RSPO-certified manufacturer. Cargill has been supplying RSPO-certified palm oil since 2005 now reaching customers in Europe Mexico Australia and Malaysia. In September RSPO reported that its 2019 sales of certified palm oil increased by 13 percent globally. Cargill’s move to ramp up its RSPO-certified palm oil comes as the company nears its goal of providing traceability to all palm plantations in high-risk landscapes. In its annual sustainability report released in June of this year Cargill outlined its progress working with smallholder palm farmers across more than ten countries to deliver sustainable palm oil to hundreds of customers worldwide. “More than ever brands and consumers care about the standards behind the products they buy notes Kinde. “People want assurance that the raw materials used are sourced in a sustainable environmentally conscious way. “By significantly increasing the supply of segregated certified-sustainable palm oil we’re giving our customers and consumers’ confidence in our sourcing practices and reaffirming our commitment to supporting sustainable practices throughout our operations he adds. Industry giants lead the charge but more can be done Palm oil is regarded as one of the most efficient vegetable oil crops in terms of yield per hectare with international conservation charity ZSL stressing that a complete rejection of the product would only likely shift demand to less-efficient alternatives and lead to greater habitat destruction. Cargill’s move to ramp up its RSPO-certified palm oil comes as the company nears its goal of providing traceability to all palm plantations in high-risk landscapes.Industry is still far from total transparency however. Last month a CDP’s new Investor Research report entitled “Zeroing-in on Deforestation said more needs to be done to fulfill net zero deforestation targets and many in the consumer goods sector are unlikely to meet their goals. Companies across the palm oil supply chain have committed to zero deforestation by 2020 through the Consumer Goods Forum pledge or through their own targets. Last month Mars revealed that its Palm Positive Plan has delivered a deforestation-free palm oil supply chain. In its deforestation crackdown Unilever is also using geospatial analytics in a move touted by the company as bringing a “new level of sophistication to traceability – one that has the potential to work on a massive scale. Meanwhile UK industry heavyweights have banded together to urge the government to strengthen its anti-deforestation policy. The 21 companies include Nestlé Unilever Tesco Lidl Asda Aldi and Nando’s. In spite of these efforts ZSL flags there is still much more work to be done. Only 55 percent of its assessed companies (54 out of 98) apply clear zero-deforestation commitments to their suppliers while only 10 percent (10 out of 98) are able to comprehensively report on how they are monitoring this.
Clariant Earns Henkel ICIS Awards. Clariant Earns Henkel ICIS Awards Henkel Adhesive Technologies presented Clariant its Sustainability Award 2020 won in 2 categories at ICIS Innovation Awards. RELATED CONTENT Coatings World staff11.23.20 Clariant was recently honored with various high-level awards in the area of sustainability and innovation. Henkel Adhesive Technologies presented Clariant its Sustainability Award 2020. Also Clariant won in two categories of this year’s ICIS Innovation Awards: Clariant’s multi-purpose additive Licocare RBW Vita derived from crude rice bran wax won Best Product and the ammonia synthesis catalyst AmoMax-Casale jointly developed with Casale SA won Best Sustainable Process. “It shows that we are on the right track with our transformation into a leading specialty chemicals company Clariant’s Chief Operating Officer Hans Bohnen said. “Sustainability has become a megatrend across the different markets we serve and we see a major increase of customer demands for solutions with regards to CO2-reduction circular economy and health and safety said Christian Kirsten corporate senior VP and global head of the Automotive and Metals business at Henkel. “Clariant has demonstrated a strong commitment to support our targets and to further grow with sustainable solutions.
New Jersey Sues Solvay and Arkema over Contaminated Drinking Water. New Jersey Sues Solvay and Arkema over Contaminated Drinking Water TAGS: MATERIALS SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES BUSINESS MEDICAL Image: Malp/Adobe Stock New Jersey officials allege that Solvay has ignored a mandate to rid the local environment of PFAS compounds and other pollutants used at its West Deptford plant. Solvay bought the plant from Arkema in 1990. Clare Goldsberry | Nov 17 2020 New Jersey officials have filed a lawsuit against Solvay Specialty Polymers USA LLC accusing the chemicals company of ignoring a mandate that it clean up contaminated drinking water and other pollution linked to toxic compounds at its West Deptford plant. The suit was filed on Nov. 10 by New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal and Catherine R. McCabe Commissioner of the state’s Department of Environmental Protection (DEP). It claims that Solvay has disregarded damage and risks to the public from PFAS compounds which were once used in making nonstick cookware. Arkema Inc. which sold the Gloucester County facility in 1990 to Solvay is also named in the suit which alleges violations of New Jersey’s Spill Act Air- and Water-Pollution Control acts and other counts. “Known as per- and polyfluroralkyl substances PFAS were used in plastics manufacturing and firefighting foams and have been found in drinking water groundwater and soil in communities in New Jersey and in Bucks and Montgomery counties the New Jersey DEP said. Officials allege that “Solvay has been slow to take responsibility for PFAS contamination that has spread through the region from its West Deptford plant. The lawsuit seeks a court order from New Jersey Superior Court requiring Solvay to “investigate and remediate PFAS contamination and stop discharges from the manufacturing facility into New Jersey waterways. The suit also alleges that Solvay has for years “discharged tens of thousands of pounds of PFAS compounds introduced as a replacement for PFNA (perfluorononanoic acid). In response to a request for comment a spokesperson from Solvay told PlasticsToday that “as a science company with sustainability at our core Solvay meets applicable legal standards with respect to health safety and the environment. We care deeply about the well-being of our employees and the communities in which we operate and would strongly reject any allegations to the contrary. “Since we learned of the PFNA detection in the area near our West Deptford plant we have implemented a rigorous investigation and remediation of PFNA with the full knowledge of the NJDEP and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. We have made considerable effort to engage in good faith with the NJDEP including offering multiple proposals to launch a cooperative expedited and scientifically reliable investigation of our current process aids. “We are surprised and disappointed that rather than pursue this expedited and cooperative route NJDEP has decided to take the litigation path. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against NJDEP’s inaccurate overly broad and meritless allegations. We remain committed to completing our investigation and remediation of PFAS impacts scientifically attributable to our West Deptford facility in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Solvay also provided PlasticsToday with additional facts including that Solvay has never manufactured PFNA or PFOA process aids or firefighting foams and completely phased out the use of PFOA (2003) and PFNA (2010) in West Deptford in advance of any legal requirement to do so. “Today we use a very limited quantity of fluorosurfactant process aids in West Deptford which have replaced prior use of PFNA and PFOA said Solvay’s spokesperson. “We use them only when required and in compliance with regulatory approvals received for and regulations applicable to the use of these process aids. Solvay also stated that the company’s investigations over the years have shown that there exist other significant sources of PFNA (and other PFAS) within Gloucester County including users of fire-fighting foams which Solvay has never manufactured or used at its West Deptford facility. “We always pursue new technological innovations to meet our customers’ needs and further advance our sustainability goals. To that end Solvay developed new non-fluorosurfactant technologies and communicated to its customers a change to its product portfolio. The new non-fluorosurfactant technologies will be in full production at our West Deptford facility by mid-2021 said the spokesperson.
MGS Breaks Ground on Expansion of Headquarters in Wisconsin. MGS Breaks Ground on Expansion of Headquarters in Wisconsin TAGS: INJECTION MOLDING BUSINESS Image: MSG The $10-million 121000-square-foot expansion will be followed by the addition of more manufacturing space slated to begin in the spring of 2022. Clare Goldsberry | Oct 20 2020 MGS recently broke ground on a 121000-square-foot expansion at its headquarters campus in Germantown WI. The additional space will be used by the vertically integrated supplier of manufacturing services for warehousing operations that are currently located at a rented facility in Oak Creek about 35 miles southeast of Germantown. The $10-million expansion will bring the total size of the campus to approximately 380000 square feet. MGS is also planning a second expansion to its headquarters that will include 118000 square feet of manufacturing space. Expected to begin in the spring of 2022 the $15-million expansion will consolidate MGS’s capabilities at its Germantown location enhancing cross-functional collaboration driving innovation and improving speed to market said the company. “During a tumultuous year our business has been very strong particularly in healthcare and we are expecting double-digit growth in 2021 said MGS President Paul Manley. “Additional demand is driving the need for our expansions and the operational and logistical improvements we are making will better service our customers. The expansions follow a $20-million investment in the MGS Healthcare Center of Excellence in 2019. The center includes a 13000-square-foot Class 8 cleanroom.
KRONOS and Omya Announce Distribution Partnership for the Philippines. Omya a leading global producer of industrial minerals and a worldwide distributor of speciality chemicals is pleased to announce the further expansion of its distribution agreement with KRONOS Worldwide Inc. Omya has been appointed the official agent and distributor of KRONOS titanium dioxide pigments in the Philippines. Starting October 1 Omya will provide service to new and existing customers in the paints and coatings thermoplastic polymers and elastomers and adhesives industry. This agreement adds another important market to Omya’s representation of KRONOS in the Asia Pacific region covering already Australia New Zealand China India Pakistan Sri Lanka and Nepal. KRONOS relies on Omya’s well-renowned technical assistance and analytical service capabilities which include a regional Technology Center in Singapore to grow its business. “Having Omya in place as our agent and distributor for the Philippines continues to strengthen both the partnership between Omya and KRONOS as well as the strong global network that KRONOS offers. We look forward to support our existing and new customers with value added service such as just in time capability that Omya’s local representation offer. We strive to preserve and continue to increase our footprint in the market being the leading global TiO2 suppliers with their knowledge of the market commented Stewart Richardson Senior Vice President Sales. Sander Herden Director of Distribution Services – Asia Pacific at Omya added: “I am so pleased with the development of our partnership with Kronos in the Asia Pacific Region. Kronos is really able to see the value that Omya can bring from a customers’ perspective and this shows in the latest expansion of our partnership to the Philippines. There will be a big benefit to the customers from our technical capabilities and distribution expertise.
Teknor Apex growing in Tennessee. Teknor Apex growing in Tennessee FRANK ESPOSITO Plastics News Staff Teknor Apex Co. Teknor Apex will spend more than $7 million in an expansion that will add 20 jobs in Brownsville Tenn. Materials firm Teknor Apex Co. will spend more than $7 million to expand its plant and add 20 jobs in Brownsville Tenn. The expansion will include new machinery according to an Oct. 7 news release from the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development (TNECD). The $7.4 million project also will expand the scope of products being made in Brownsville where Teknor now employs 620. It is important for Teknor Apex to support the communities in which we operate Paul Burke global operations senior vice president said in the release. With the addition of resources we will not only be able to better support our customers but it also allows us to open up more career opportunities in the community. Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee added that the investment from Teknor is a testament to Tennessees strong rural workforce as our economy continues to recover. Since 2015 TNECD has supported nearly 80 economic development projects in Southwest Tennessee resulting in more than 5100 job commitments and $1.2 billion in capital investment. Pawtucket R.I.-based Teknor makes compounds based on flexible and rigid PVC thermoplastic elastomers and nylons and also makes color concentrates specialty chemicals and garden hoses. The firm operates 13 plants worldwide in the U.S. Belgium Germany China and Singapore and has annual sales of more than $1 billion.
Arkema executives acquitted of criminal charges over Texas plant explosions. Houston — Three Arkema SA executives have been cleared of criminal charges over a series of explosions at the companys Crosby Texas site in August 2017 that led to a major evacuation operation in the region. State District Judge Belinda Hill cleared Arkema North America CEO Richard Rowe and plant manager Leslie Comardelle of playing a role in recklessly releasing chemicals into the air putting residents and first responders at risk. In addition assault charges against former logistics executive Michael Keough and Arkema Inc. were dismissed mid-trial. In a statement Arkema Inc. in King of Prussia Pa. said: It is beyond unfortunate that these illfounded charges created years of undue hardship for Rich Rowe Leslie Comardelle and Mike Keough and for their families. The most positive aspect of the trials conclusion is that it allows these good people to get on with their lives. The company said that what happened at the plant was a natural disaster not a crime. This trial sought to criminalize the impact of a natural disaster that Harris County itself was not prepared for the company statement said. We communicated extensively with the Unified Command that coordinated emergency response and explicitly warned that emergency responders should wear respirators if they might be exposed to smoke from the fires Arkema said in its statement. We cannot fathom why they did not do so but it certainly was not for lack of warning it added. Arkema Inc. is a unit of Colombes France-based Arkema SA. The explosions at the Crosby plant took place on Aug. 31 2017 in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey after power-cuts led to the loss of refrigeration for some organic peroxides at the site which exploded due to high temperature. The Crosby plant makes liquid organic peroxides that are used primarily in the production of polystyrene polyethylene polypropylene PVC and acrylic resins as well as polyester-reinforced fiberglass.
Barentz Acquires Maroon Group Grows North American Footprint. Barentz Acquires Maroon Group Grows North American Footprint The acquisition furthers Barentz’s strategy of becoming a global leader in the life science and broader specialty chemicals industries. PlasticsToday Staff | Oct 14 2020 Netherlands-based distributor of life-science ingredients Barentz International has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Maroon Group a supplier of specialty chemicals and life science ingredients across North America. The acquisition of this leading North American platform will expand Barentz’s activities and is aligned with its strategy of becoming a global leader in the life science and broader specialty chemicals industries said the press release. The deal is expected to close this quarter. Maroon was founded in 1977 and is based in Avon OH. It is one of the largest specialty suppliers to the household industrial and institutional personal care pharmaceutical food & nutrition and coatings adhesives sealants and elastomers markets across North America. Maroon generates an annual turnover of approximately $500 million and has approximately 300 employees. Maroon Group CEO Terry Hill and his management team will continue to run the operations. Joining with Barentz was a logical decision said Hill. The deciding factor was that Barentz is already a global business and this creates tremendous opportunities to strengthen our business in North America and internationally. Barentz is well-known across the industry we share the same philosophy and entrepreneurial DNA and is the best possible new home for the stakeholders across our business said Hill. Our product portfolios are very complementary added Barentz CEO Hidde van der Wal. We have no conflicts of interest and we can learn a lot from each other. Maroon Group has significant scale in North America — the biggest economy of the world where we were small until today. The combination will immediately make Barentz a leading global distributor with an excellent opportunity to establish new business segments in North America. It is a natural combination that enables us to offer quality and expertise to our combined customer base. Established in 1953 Barentz has operations in more than 60 countries with a strong presence in Europe and Asia. The company employs around 1100 people throughout the world. Kirkland & Ellis represented Barentz in the transaction. Moelis & Company LLC and Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP advised Maroon on the transaction. Exact terms of the transaction have not been made public.
Songwon expands its range of SONGFLAME WB flame-retardant synergists. Songwon expands its range of SONGFLAME WB ame-retardant synergists Following the launch of SONGFLAME at K-2019 Songwon has further developed its proprietary halogen-free technology and is adding a new product to its portfolio of ame-retardant synergists. SONGFLAME WB 201 solvent-free aqueous ame-retardant dispersion is designed especially for the coatings adhesives sealants and elastomers (CASE) market and is also highly suitable for textile applications requiring ame-retardant properties. The benets of the new product include easy handling for customers working with waterborne systems low viscosity and a high active content. “SONGFLAME products provide a powerful building block for formulators of halogen-free materials. They allow our customers to achieve an ideal balance between increasingly stringent market requirements and overall cost eciency said André Le Gal Leader Market Center Flame Retardants at Songwon. He added: “There has been signicant progress since the launch of the SONGFLAME range in terms of project momentum and technical approvals despite the challenging market conditions for our customers resulting from the impact of COVID-19. In keeping with its commitment to help improve sustainability throughout the value chain Songwon has built up the new ame-retardant synergist portfolio with a view to promoting the growth of halogen-free solutions. SONGFLAME WB 201 is the latest addition to Songwon’s water-based portfolio which was introduced at the European Coatings Show 2019. Developed to meet the increased demand for environmentally acceptable additives the new ranges combine the eciency of conventional products with the benets of water miscibility low-to-zero VOC generation and Sally Gibson 23rd September 2020 ? (https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php? u=https://www.polymerspaintcolourjournal.com/news/songwonexpands-its-range-ofsongame-wb-ameretardantsynergists&t=Songwon expands its range of SONGFLAME WB ame-retardant synergists) ? (http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle? mini=true&url=https://www.polymerspaintcolourjournal.com/news/songwon expands-its-range-ofsongame-wb-ameretardantsynergists&title=Songwon expands its range of SONGFLAME WB ame-retardant synergists&summary=&source=PPCJ) ? (https://twitter.com/intent/tweet? original_referer=https://www.polymerspaintcolourjournal.com/news/songwo expands-its-range-ofsongame-wb-ameretardantsynergists&url=https://www.polymerspaintcolourjournal.com/id/66056&text= expands its range of SONGFLAME WB ame-retardant synergists&via=coatingsgroup) ?(mailto:? subject=Songwon%20expands%20its%20range%20of%20SONGFLAME%20W retardant%20synergists&body=I%20found%20this%20on%20The%20PPCJ%2 expands-its-range-ofsongame-wb-ameretardant-synergists) More news Sister publication Media Partners ® ® ® ® ® Editorial Programme ? + (https://castbox.fm/channel/The-Ask-Joe- (http://www.asiapaciccoatingsjournal.com/new / easy dosing and handling. Having now completed construction of a new industrial line SONGWON can oer customers a reliable and consistently high-quality supply of SONGFLAME products manufactured at a sizeable multi-purpose production facility. The launch of a second generation of SONGFLAME products currently in development is expected in 2021.
Green Bay Packaging Acquires Ohio-based Corrugated Packaging Producer Third Dimension Inc.. Third Dimension is based in Geneva Ohio with operations in Middlefield Ohio and services Ohio Virginia and Kentucky. Oct. 1 2020 - Green Bay Packaging Inc. (GBP) announced that it has acquired Third Dimension Inc. a manufacturer of custom corrugated packaging based in Geneva Ohio. The company has operations in Middlefield Ohio and services Ohio Virginia and Kentucky. Financial terms of the deal which closed on Oct. 1 were not disclosed. Third Dimension was founded in 1991 by Louis DeJesus and Jeanette DeJesus. The company has an excellent reputation in the marketplace for corrugated packaging innovation molded foam packaging 4 color digital printing and customer service. The acquisition of Third Dimension is a great fit for Green Bay Packaging. This acquisition gives us the opportunity to grow our business in several states said Will Kress President and CEO of Green Bay Packaging. Third Dimension has the perfect culture workforce and strong leadership that fit the GBP model and we look forward to expanding their business and facilities. Third Dimension will continue to be led by Louis DeJesus and Mike Kelly. DeJesus will also stay on as CEO of CompanyBox — an e-commerce packaging web business in which GBP has a minority ownership position. Founded in 1933 Green Bay Packaging Inc. is a privately owned vertically integrated company consisting of corrugated container plants folding cartons recycled and virgin linerboard mills
New and in demand_ BASF’s anti-pollution skin care system. New and in demand: BASF’s anti-pollution skin care system 20-Oct-2020 Ingredients “Only one person in ten lives in a city that complies with WHO’s safe limits for air quality. These are the words of former WHO Director-General Dr. Margaret Chan (2006–2017). The skin forms the natural interface and barrier between the environment and the body. Alongside the respiratory tract the skin is the first area of contact with all types of pollutants. Impacts of particulate pollutants to take just one category of airborne irritants include exacerbation of acne premature ageing pigmentation disorders and wrinkle formation. In addition pollutants can alter the composition of the skin’s microbiome compromising its natural barrier function and lead to oxidative stress. Accordingly consumer awareness of the threat of pollution and demand for antipollution skincare are high and rising. 1 10/22/2020 New and in demand: BASF’s anti-pollution skin care system https://www.cosmeticsbusiness.com/news/article_page/New_and_in_demand_BASFs_anti-pollution_skin_care_system/170747 2/2 Sound science BASFs new approach uses innovative screening methods based on four impact paths of pollutants. Accordingly we test our ingredients in terms of efficacy in cleansing anti-penetration anti-adhesion and removability of pollutants. The result: multidimensional skin protection with proven best-in-class performance. That means you can make validated benefit claims on your finished products in line with your brand strategy and the needs of your target groups. Let’s talk about what our antipollution innovations can do for your skin care product offering
Biodiversity and the Packaging Industry - Elopak. Biodiversity and the Packaging Industry 10/19/2020 Biodiversity and the Packaging Industry - Elopak https://www.elopak.com/2020/10/19/biodiversity-and-the-packaging-industry/ 2/5 important. We rely on it for our health food and security it is fundamental to our well-being. We are not just dependent on it but part of it. Yet biodiversity loss is taking place at an unprecedented rate threatening our future. WWF recorded an estimated 60 per cent fall in wildlife populations between 1970 and 2014. It is clear that in 2020 we cannot afford to continue with business as usual. Sustainable Sourcing The packaging industry has an important role to play when it comes to stepping up on biodiversity. If cartons are going to live up to their reputation as an environmentally friendly alternative to plastic bottles then a focus on sustainable sourcing is essential. Forests contain 80 per cent of the world’s terrestrial biodiversity. They are also the second largest carbon sink after the oceans. Between 1990 and 2015 the world lost 129 million hectares of forest. The destruction and degradation of forests worldwide leads to an increase of the atmospheric CO2 concentration and is devastating to both the climate and wildlife. Elopak cartons consist of on average 75 per cent paperboard. Responsible forest management is therefore central to our operations. In order to ensure long term access to raw materials and help conserve natural resources Elopak sources this paperboard from forests where there is net growth. For example in Finland and Sweden our main countries of origin of fibers the annual forest growth is around 4 per cent while harvesting is 2.8 per cent. That means a 12 per cent net growth of forest each year. For each tree harvested our suppliers make sure that at least three new seedlings are planted.
Cargill invests to promote circular economy with its first multi waste- and residues-based biodiesel plant _ Cargill. (Belgium) October 22 2020 — In a move to further strengthen its commitment to fight climate change and deliver a more circular economy Cargill is constructing a multi waste- and residues-based biodiesel plant at its existing integrated oilseeds crush and Bioro biodiesel site in Ghent Belgium. The groundbreaking $150 million project helps meet global renewable energy demand while protecting natural resources and enables Cargill to maintain its leading position across Europe both in producing renewable fuels and providing customers with sustainable responsible and safe solutions. With the new European Renewable Energy Directive (RED II) signaling the need to shift toward more advanced biofuels coming from waste and residues Cargill is looking to stay ahead of the trend. According to Roger Janson President of Cargill’s Agricultural Supply Chain across EMEA the market will require new assets capable of processing more difficult feedstocks. “The new Cargill facility in Ghent will be the first plant in Europe capable of processing all kinds of feedstocks including acid oils from vegetable oil refining liquid residues from industrial processes and even the fat recovered from sewage sludge from local municipalities he said. The plant will use very latest technology of BDI-BioEnergy International GmbH that enables the processing of all types of liquid waste oils and fats including by-products from food processing and waste from the food industry and non-food crops grown on marginal land.
Turning wastewater nutrients into fertiliser _ Aalto University_Nordkalk. Turning wastewater nutrients into fertiliser Published: 19.10.2020 The NPHarvest process allows for the recovery of nitrogen and phosphorus from wastewater in a way that transforms them into an ammonium sulphate solution for fertiliser use and a phosphorus- and calcium-rich slurry. 10/21/2020 Turning wastewater nutrients into fertiliser | Aalto University https://www.aalto.fi/en/news/turning-wastewater-nutrients-into-fertiliser 2/5 Jäteveden käsittely The NPHarvest methods tests at a wastewater treatment plant and a landfill met with success. Ilaria Righetto from the Masters Programme in Water and Environmental Engineering participated in the project through her masters thesis work. Wastewater contains large amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus which are valuable nutrients. NPHarvest is a process developed by Aalto University researchers that allows for the recovery of these nutrients in a way that produces a clean
LyondellBasell makes recycled polymers pledge. LyondellBasell is aiming to produce and market 2 million tonnes of recycled and renewable-based polymers annually by 2030 as part of its contribution to ending plastics waste. The petrochemicals firm also plans to increase its investment in the recovery and recycling of plastics to meet wider industry pledges towards 100 per cent of plastics packaging being reused recycled or recovered by 2040. A further commitment laid out in the company’s annual sustainability report is to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 15 per cent per tonne of product produced relative to 2015 levels by 2030. In addition LyondellBasell said it would advance diversity inclusion and equity in the workplace by accelerating initiatives such as building diversity and inclusion (D&I) into talent programmes. To help it achieve this a D&I officer position has been created and a cross-section of employees will serve on a D&I Council. Jim Seward senior vice president for research and development technology and sustainability said LyondellBasell’s aim through the sustainability report is to affect positive change. “LyondellBasell has been on a multi-year journey to advance the circular economy and we have made strides in mechanical and advanced recycling as well as producing renewable-based products Seward said. The report detailed how LyondellBasell continues to increase recycling and work collaboratively across the value chain. It highlighted chief executive Bob Patel’s role in the launch of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste and continued involvement as an officer of the organisation. LyondellBasell is developing advanced recycling through its MoReTec technology which aims to return post-consumer plastics waste to its molecular form for use as a feedstock for new plastics materials. Earlier this month MoReTe
Chem-Trend Showcases Preform Coating System. Chem-Trend Howell Michigan a developer manufacturer and marketer of high-performance release agents purging compounds and other ancillary molding products participated in the development of a new preform coating system (PCS). This system enables preforms to be accurately sprayed directly after the injection-molding process. The solution was developed by Bonino Group in collaboration with Chem-Trend and Steidle. Graziano Pestarino global account manager Thermoplastics Packaging at Chem-Trend explained that Preform Coating System (PCS) by Bonino reliably reduces scratches on PET preforms with precision spraying of Lusin® Lub O 32 F. It also increases the number of preforms that can be stored in an Octabin container which reduces shipping and warehousing cost of preforms. Together with its partners Chem-Trend is now able to present a revolutionary system that will allow converters to coat preforms in a safe way. The system is installed directly after the injection-moulding machine and before the soft-drop or Octabin. It is designed to spray only the body of the preforms with extreme precision without applying any coating agent on the thread of the preforms. A specially designed “Safeguard system installed around the neck area of the PET preforms prevents the coating agent from entering the preforms. The application method allows Lusin® Lub O 32 F to coat preforms on the full body which results in a reduction of scratches during the filling and unloading of the Octabins. This preform coating system solution was developed through a collaborative process between Bonino Group a manufacturer of orientation and sorting systems based in Italy Steidle specialists for micro spraying lubrication systems from Leverkusen Germany and Chem-Trend. The system aims to improve the way PET preforms are coated by providing an efficient and secure process ensuring that the coating agent will not enter the preforms. The resulting safety economic and operative benefits give PET preform manufacturers and their customers substantial competitive advantages. Bonino Group was able to engineer a portable unit that can easily be integrated into production lines. Using Bonino’s technology preforms are diverted into the PCS system after production where they are then properly oriented and individually coated. The unit can be adjusted to accommodate virtually all preform designs and sizes in just a few minutes making it extremely flexible. The seamlessly integrated PIC (process integrated coating) system developed by Steidle can accurately dose micro quantities of Lusin® Lub O 32 F and ensure that the entire body of each preform is uniformly coated. The preform coating system was developed for use with Lusin® Lub O 32 F made by Chem-Trend. This food contact compliant coating agent is a hybrid product that combines the effects of a lubricant and release agent. As an innovative and efficient lubricant and release agent for the packaging industry it ensures uniform coating of all PET preforms.
FAO issues guidelines for environmental performance of feed additives. The Food and Agriculture Organization’s (FAO) Livestock Environmental Assessment and Performance (LEAP) Partnership recently released guidelines on a methodology for assessing the environmental performance of feed additives. The guidelines provide a harmonized approach for generating metrics and data that may be used to enhance the environmental sustainability of livestock supply chains. The LEAP guidelines are intended to be applicable to a wide range of livestock production systems and compliment lifecycle assessments that analyze environmental impacts associated with all stages of livestock production including the use of feed additives. Specifically the guidelines allow for comparison of scenarios with and without specific feed additives and combinations thereof supporting the evaluation of their effect in a given situation. As such the guidelines may have relevance for a wide range of stakeholders including livestock producers feed additive manufacturers feed producers policymakers and scientists. The LEAP Partnership is a multi-stakeholder initiative launched in July 2012 with the goal to improve the environmental sustainability of the livestock sector through harmonized methods metrics and data. Hosted by the FAO LEAP consists of representatives from the private sector governments and academia who work to develop science-based and transparent guidance to measure and improve the environmental performance of livestock products. The guidelines for assessing environmental performance of feed additives were developed by a LEAP workgroup established in 2017 that consisted of 26 experts from 15 countries.
Henkel invests in advanced materials start-up actnano. Adhesive Technologies to expand expertise for functional coating solutions in automotive electronics and consumer electronics Henkel invests in advanced materials start-up actnano Düsseldorf Germany – Henkel Adhesive Technologies further enhances its market offerings for functional coatings by investing in actnano Boston Massachusetts USA. The advanced materials start-up provides a unique tailored conformal coatings technology for the protection of printed circuit boards in a variety of applications in growing electronics segments. “As part of our venturing activities we are looking for novel and scalable formulated technologies providing unique benefits for growing markets explains Paolo Bavaj Head of Corporate Venturing Adhesive Technologies. “Functional coatings are a major focus topic for our Adhesive Technologies business. We are excited to work with actnano who has developed a conformal coating technology that protects entire printed circuit board systems responding to the fast-growing demands especially in automotive electronics and consumer electronics. The technology has already proven its marketability and is commercially available. Together we aim to unlock new opportunities across Henkel´s extensive customer base in these markets globally. We are pleased to have co-invested into actnano as part of a consortium led by Emerald Technology Ventures where we are a Limited Partner. Founded in 2012 actnano has developed a unique commercialized technology for gel-based coatings with comprehensive waterproofing and environmental resistant properties. The materials are designed to provide superior protection to printed circuit boards including connectors antennas LED´s and all mounted components and provide benefits in a broad variety of fast-growing automotive electronics and consumer electronics applications. The liquid applied coatings offer a drop-in solution for existing coating lines and enable customers to increase throughputs and to significantly reduce the production costs per device. The actnano technology is hydrophobic electrically insulating and allows electrical connection through the coating. Together with Henkel the start-up aims to further optimize
Domtar to Enter Containerboard Market with Kingsport Mill Conversion. According to Domtar containerboard is North Americas largest pulp and paper market and it has good longterm growth prospects. Its a 40-million-ton market today and its growing by about 2 percent (or approximately 800000 tons) each year. Sept. 16 2020 (Domtar News) - Over the last two years Domtar has evaluated the merits of repurposing key paper machines as we adjust our white paper production capacity to match our customer demand. Thats why we recently announced we are converting our Kingsport Tennessee paper mill into the companys first containerboard facility. Similar to previous decisions that have adapted our mills like the 2016 conversion at our Ashdown Mill to produce fluff pulp containerboard manufacturing is an exciting new market that directly aligns with our expertise and more than 100-year legacy of turning fiber into useful products. Were excited about this move and here are a few reasons you should be too: Containerboard Is Versatile and Sustainable Containerboard is a type of paper used to make cardboard. If youre looking at a cross-section of cardboard youll notice the corrugated medium between two sheets of linerboard paper. Containerboard is widely used as a packaging material because it is versatile lightweight strong and renewable. It supports a variety of industries including food products consumer packaged goods manufacturing and distribution and it aligns with many of todays megatrends including growth in ecommerce and sustainability. Containerboard Is a Large and Growing Market Containerboard is North Americas largest pulp and paper market and it has good long-term growth prospects. Its a 40-million-ton market today and its growing by about 2 percent (or approximately 800000 tons) each year. Once the Kingsport Mill conversion is complete which we expect will be in the first quarter of 2023 well be able to produce and market about 600000 tons of high-quality recycled linerboard and corrugated medium annually on North Americas premier lightweight containerboard machine. That level of capacity will make Kingsport the second-largest recycled containerboard mill in North America. Kingsport Is an Ideal Location Producing recycled containerboard requires a good supply stream of recycled paper materials like boxes chipboard office paper and newsprint. Finding that material wont be a problem. We can source it from 72 recovered-paper suppliers with 116 locations in a seven-state radius. Thanks to a high-quality paper machine capable of producing about 4500 feet per minute Kingsport Mill has the potential to become one of the lowest-cost recycled containerboard mills in the United States. Its central location in the Southeastern United States means its also geographically positioned to be the go-to supplier to more than 60 independent box makers across the region representing nearly 4 million tons of annual containerboard demand. Repurposing the Kingsport Mill provides Domtar with an excellent strategic entry point into a growing market with a very competitive low-cost asset says Domtar President and CEO John Williams. We view this as a strategic first step toward building a large value-adding business in the containerboard market. Were Still Committed to Paper Our entry into the containerboard market doesnt mean we have plans to stop making paper. Our uncoated freesheet business is a critical part of our financial success and were committed to maintaining our long-standing position as North Americas leading uncoated freesheet producer. Repurposing Kingsport Mill is an important part of our long-term strategic plan to build a large and cost-competitive containerboard business while balancing our uncoated freesheet capacity with customer demand. The conversion represents an exciting next step in Kingsport Mills more than 100-year history in the Northeast Tennessee community. Were proud of our long history in Kingsport and strong partnership with the community says Kingsport Mill Manager Marty Barfield. The mill has an outstanding reputation for employing local talent and giving back. Weve had many generations of families working here and we look forward to continuing that tradition for many years to come. We are very excited about developing a new focus and culture once our transformation is complete. Domtar is a leading provider of a wide variety of fiber-based products including communication specialty and packaging papers market pulp and absorbent hygiene products. With approximately 9700 employees serving more than 50 countries around the world Domtar is driven by a commitment to turn sustainable wood fiber into useful products that people rely on every day. Domtars annual sales are approximately $5.2 billion. For further information
Maroon Group to Distribute Innospec. Maroon Group to Distribute Innospec’s Line of Performance Chemicals Maroon Group will be the exclusive distributor of Innospec’s surfactant line for the CASE market in the US. RELATED CONTENT Coatings World staff09.24.20 Maroon Group announced a new distribution relationship with Innospec a global manufacturer of performance additives. Effective immediately Maroon Group will be the exclusive distributor of Innospec’s surfactant line for the CASE market in the US. “We are excited to be partnering with Innospec in the US and bringing its world-class surfactant technology and market leadership to the CASE market said Thomas Papasso VP Principal Management. “Innospec’s products allow Maroon to continue to offer new solutions to meet the challenges of our customers and allowing them to be successful. Innospec has been working to increase our participation in the various industries and are now able to focus our technology resources and energy to support the efforts of this highly respected organization added David Cromley Innospecs business director. Maroon Group brings a new level of experience and professionalism to this challenge.
Maroon Group to Distribute Innospec Line of Performance Chemicals. Maroon Group to Distribute Innospec Line of Performance Chemicals Effective immediately Maroon Group is the exclusive distributor of Innospec’s surfactant line for the CASE market in the U.S. September 28 2020 KEYWORDS additives / distributors / general business Order Reprints No Comments Maroon Group recently announced a new distribution relationship with Innospec a global manufacturer of performance additives and technically advanced solutions. Effective immediately Maroon Group is the exclusive distributor of Innospec’s surfactant line for the CASE market in the U.S. “We are excited to be partnering with Innospec in the US and bringing their world class surfactant technology and market leadership to the CASE market said Thomas Papasso vice president principal management. “Innospec’s products allow Maroon to continue to offer new solutions to meet the challenges of our customers and allowing them to be successful. “I am excited to announce Maroon Group as our distributor for CASE in the United States said David Cromley Innospec’s business director. “Innospec has been working to increase our participation in the various industries and are now able to focus our technology resources and energy to support the efforts of this highly respected organization. Maroon Group brings a new level of experience and professionalism to this challenge.
Niacet spotlights clean label vinegar solution for textural firmness in plant-based meat alternatives. Niacet spotlights clean label vinegar soluon for textural firmness in plantbased meat alternaves 21 Aug 2020 --- Made from naturally fermented vinegar Niacet’s Provian Plus is a clean label offering formulated specifically for plant-based meat alternatives. The solution contains added calcium which interacts with hydrocolloids and proteins commonly found in plant-based substitutes – such as pea and soy – to provide a textural firmness that adds authenticity to an alternative product. FoodIngredientsFirst speaks to Pieter Paul Lamers Managing Director at Niacet to further explore the ingredient’s functionalities. “Provian Plus is the answer to the most important challenges faced today when developing a plant proteinbased product specifically when securing food safety and shelflife and improving the texture of the product says Lamers. Provian Plus can be labeled as Dry Vinegar Neutralized Vinegar or Buffered Vinegar in products with a natural claim. “Provian Plus is pure and 100 percent defined [on label]. Comparable products on the market are often based on unidentified combinations with detailed composition of certain ferments unknown explains Lamers. “As a result of the unique production process Provian Plus is homogeneous and disperses well in the final application. The product bonds the plant proteins and by doing so improves the structure of the meat replacer. This very same product also has unique proven anti-microbial activities he details. With its vinegar-derived Provian range Niacet offers a range of products that secure food safety and extend shelf life in a wide array of applications both meat and plant-based. “We have grown our portfolio dedicated to plant-protein based products. In our development pipeline we are working further on a range of multi-functional components Lamers notes. Formulating with Provian Plus Provian Plus is marketed as an easily soluble powder and can be applied as such or can be pre-dissolved. “Sensory evaluations have shown that vinegar based products like Provian Plus do not have an effect on taste smell or structure. It controls pathogens like Listeria and spoilage bacteria like lactic acid bacteria very efficiently remarks Lamers. “When consumers eat plant protein-based meat replacers they expect not only a pleasant meat-like taste but also the mouthfeel of meat. Mimicking this mouthfeel normally requires firming agents. With the use of Provian Plus food safety shelf life extension and texture improvement go hand-in-hand and are all achieved with one product he details. Provian NDV was one of Niacet’s Provian solutions showcased at the Institute of Food Technologists’ digital event SHIFT20. It is marketed as a clean label preservative for the control of Salmonella a food pathogen in fresh beef. Eelco Heintz Product & Innovation Manager at Niacet also recently spoke to FoodIngredientsFirst in a video interview about the ingredients functionalities.
DC Granules for more than just Tableting. DC Granules for more than just Tableting 14 Sep 2020 The DC Granules product line by Dr. Paul Lohmann® covers Calcium Magnesium Iron and Zinc Salts offering lots of application benefits. The granulation process enlarges the particle size by converting fine or coarse powders into physically strong and larger granules with uniform shape good flow property as well as good compression characteristics. Granules are formed by adding a liquid solution (water with or without binding agent) to powders. Binding agents of the product line are maltodextrin starch PVP citric acid and gum arabic. From a production point of view DC (direct compressible) grades offer excellent tableting properties. Granulated DC grades solve challenges during the tableting process due to the physical modification. Tablet manufacturers usually use wet granulation of powders prior to the
Alberdingk Boley Exhibits Water-Based Emulsions and Dispersions. Alberdingk Boley Inc. Exhibits Water-Based Emulsions and Dispersions September 7 2020 Order Reprints No Comments Alberdingk Boley Inc. (ABI) Booth #47 is a global supplier of innovative water-based dispersions. The product portfolio is innovative and high performance 50% of products have been developed in the last five years to meet ever-changing market needs. ABI offers a full line of waterborne resins including: • Acrylic dispersions (multiphase self-crosslinking and VeoVA-based) • Polyurethane dispersions (solvent-free NMP-containing and renewable) • Alkyl-phenol (APEO)-free dispersions • UV-curable dispersions • Polyurethane-acrylic dispersions • Castor oil and linseed oil polyols With a legacy of more than 185 years in castor and linseed oils driven by tradition and innovative technology ABI supplies environmentally friendly water-based emulsions and dispersions to the paint and coatings adhesives and graphic arts industries. The U.S. headquarters are based in Greensboro North Carolina. With a wide array of technology platforms of specialty emulsions and polyurethane dispersions ABI partners with customers to provide tailor-made solutions and help them succeed and lead in their respective markets.
LANXESS Expanding Oxone Monopersulfate Capacity. LANXESS Expanding Oxone Monopersulfate Capacity Production increase of around 50 percent targeted. Coatings World staff09.15.20 LANXESS is planning to expand its production capacity for Oxone monopersulfate by around 50 percent. To this end the company intends to invest a lower double-digit million Euro sum in its production facility in Memphis TN. LANXESS uses Oxone monopersulfate as the main active ingredient in many of its Virkon and Rely+On disinfection products. The company also sells Oxone as a powerful oxidizing agent for numerous other applications. The capacity expansion is expected to be completed in the second half of 2022. “Disinfection products are important growth drivers in our highly profitable Consumer Protection segment. We expect a sustainable high level of demand even after the coronavirus pandemic said Matthias Zachert chairman of the LANXESS Board of Management.
ExxonMobil introduces foamable PP resin. ExxonMobil Chemical officials believe their firm has taken polypropylene to a new level with a foamable grade of its Achieve-brand PP resin. Polypropylene and the foaming industry are a good match but it but had been limited by low melt strength Olivier Lorge said in a recent phone interview with Plastics News. Now we can combine the best properties of polypropylene to make foam thats affordable and has high melt strength. Lorge is global marketing manager of the PP Vistamaxx and adhesion units of Houston-based ExxonMobil Chemical. The new Achieve PP grade is commercially available worldwide and can be used in food and beverage packaging industrial packaging building products and automotive parts. The new materials also can improve product stiffness by up to 30 percent vs. other PP foam grades officials said creating cost reduction opportunities. Foam brings light weight and insulation which is why its been such a good product through the years Lorge said. Its led to uses in automotive construction and sports equipment where it has a lot of advantages. Now we want to use polypropylene in foam where its low cost and good properties make it one of the most versatile polymers on earth he added. The new material will allow PP to compete with existing foam resins such as polystyrene polyurethane and PVC. The ability to use existing equipment also is an advantage officials said. Foamable PP has been around for 20 years but its never been affordable at scale said Abby Petrerson global PP/Vistamaxx/adhesion brand adviser. Now our proprietary technology allows customers to make PP foam at scale using their current machinery. The possibilities are endless she added. Weve cracked the code. Lorge said that ExxonMobil has worked with machinery makers to ensure that existing machinery can be used with minor adjustments. Its not completely a drop-in but its affordable he added citing foam packaging such as food service clamshells coffee cups and meat trays as potential major applications. The new PP material also is recyclable in communities with appropriate collection and recycling facilities officials said. In food and beverage packaging the new grade offers insulation properties and durable grease and moisture resistance even in high temperature applications like microwave ovens and dishwashers. The stiff and durable packaging can be re-used and is well-suited to replacing corrugated sheet to protect valuable products. In building products such as insulation and concrete joints the new PP provides durability and flexibility for ease of installation. In auto parts such as headliners ducts and floor liners the new grade delivers stiffness that allows vehicle manufacturers to maintain critical performance properties while reducing weight and increasing fuel efficiency. The foam structure can also provide benefits such as heat insulation and sound dissipation for a more comfortable ride officials said.
Flint Group Packaging Inks Publishes White Paper. Flint Group Packaging Inks Publishes White Paper Commitment to demonstrating robust ethical management is at the heart of a Sustainable Supply Model implemented by Flint Group Packaging Inks. RELATED CONTENT • Ball Completes Tubex Aluminum Aerosol Packaging Business Acquisition in Brazil • Siegwerk Launches Deinkable UV Flexo Varnishes Offset Inks • Fraunhofer ISC Earns German Packaging Award in Sustainability Category • Opportunities Abound in Flexible Packaging • Sustainalytics Rank Crown No. 1 Org with Low ESG Risk In Metal Glass Packaging Sector Ink World staff09.04.20 A commitment to demonstrating robust ethical management is at the heart of an innovative Sustainable Supply Model implemented by Flint Group Packaging Inks. In a new white paper unveiled by the company an ambition to achieve transparent and sustainable supply conditions for the print and packaging supply chain is outlined. “We have a strong sustainability vision embedded in everything we do at Flint Group Packaging Inks. However this can only be truly realized if we extend our commitments to our stakeholders and suppliers located around the world said Arno de Groot VP of Procurement for Flint Group Packaging. The rigorous standards we set
Fires Breaks out at two Poly America Facilities Within a Week. Fires Break Out at Two Poly America Facilities Within a Week Special agents from the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives have been sent to help with ongoing investigations at both facilities as the cause of the fires has come under scrutiny. Clare Goldsberry | Sep 04 2020 Poly-America has suffered two fires within a week. On Aug. 19 a fire broke out at the company’s headquarters in Grand Prairie TX that was suspected to have been caused by a falling high-tension power line under which large rolls of plastic film were stored. The three-alarm fire started just after midnight and required foam to suppress the blaze some of which was brought in from Dallas-Ft. Worth International Airport. A nearby railcar caught fire and exploded according to local news reports.
Brenntag to present innovations at The Paint and Painting Midwest Forum. Company will present solutions in its portfolio for formulation of decorative paints The growth perspective in the construction sector offers opportunities for the supply chain of this market including paints and additives. Aligned with the search for new products and technologies during the 47th Paint & Paint Painting and Paint Management Forum - Midwest Region - Brenntag will present innovations in its portfolio for the formulation of decorative paints highlighting emulsions and additives to promote differentiated properties such as: low dirt handle anti-graffiti easy to clean paints façade protection among other benefits. Presenting solutions and trends that are in accordance with environmental and regulatory regulations generating added value to the product. The lecture Innovations and solutions for the Construction: finishing and protection market will be given by Sérgio Santos technical coordinator of Brenntag. The event will be held from 09:00 to 16:50 with an interval of 1:30 am for lunch. The lectures will last 30 minutes with another 10 minutes for questions and answers (digital networkings) where participants will be able to interact virtually with the speakers. The event will be closed and transmitted to the subscribers of the paint industries of the region free of charge and participants will receive a link and password to follow the work. After the event participants will receive the digital certificate.
International Paper Reports Second Quarter 2020 Results. International Paper delivered solid earnings and generated strong cash from operations while navigating the COVID-19 pandemic and its significant economic impact. – Mark Sutton Chairman and CEO of International Paper. July 30 2020 - International Paper (NYSE: IP) today reported second quarter 2020 financial results. SECOND QUARTER 2020 HIGHLIGHTS • Second quarter net earnings (loss) attributable to International Paper of $266 million ($0.67 per diluted share) compared with $(141) million ($(0.36) per diluted share) in the first quarter of 2020 and $292 million ($0.73 per diluted share) in the second quarter of 2019. First quarter 2020 net earnings included an after-tax charge of $337 million ($0.85 per diluted share) for the impairment of the net assets and write-off of foreign currency translation adjustment following the announcement of the sale of our Brazil Packaging business. • Second quarter adjusted operating earnings* (non-GAAP) of $305 million ($0.77 per diluted share) compared with $226 million ($0.57 per diluted share) in the first quarter of 2020 and $460 million ($1.15 per diluted share) in the second quarter of 2019 • Second quarter cash provided by operations of $890 million and year-to-date of $1.5 billion compared with $1.8 billion year-to-date in the same period of 2019 • Liquidity position of $3.6 billion at the end of the second quarter compared with $3.5 billion at the end of the first quarter which reflects cash and unused committed facilities International Paper delivered solid earnings and generated strong cash from operations while navigating the COVID-19 pandemic and its significant economic impact said Mark Sutton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our performance demonstrates the strength and resilience of our employees our diverse customer base and our world-class manufacturing and supply chain capabilities. Looking ahead we will continue to focus on cash generation to reinforce the companys financial strength as we manage through ongoing uncertainty. Sutton added The health and safety of our employees remain our most important responsibility. I am proud of their ongoing commitment to take care of each other and our customers.
WestRock Reports Fiscal 3Q 2020 Results. WestRock Company announced results for its fiscal third quarter ended June 30 2020. Third quarter of fiscal 2020 financial highlights included net sales of $4.2 billion a decrease of 9.7% compared to the prior year quarter. Segment EBITDA margins
Sappi Europe Awarded Platinum for Sustainability in EcoVadis Rating. The platinum rating from EcoVadis demonstrates that Sappi not only talks about sustainability but actively works towards ensuring it in a very practical way. Aug. 11 2020 (Press Release) - Sappi Europe received a platinum score in the latest EcoVadis rating. The leading global provider of sustainable woodfibre products and solutions retained its top position from the previous year among the leading one per cent of all companies assessed which exhibit high activity and responsibility with regard to corporate social responsibility (CSR). • Sappi Europe receives top rating for sustainability • Unlocking the power of renewable resources to benefit people communities and the planet As part of its clear strategic goals in relation to sustainability and environmental protection Sappi reached a new milestone. The market leader in environmentally friendly packaging and graphic papers received a platinum score in this years sustainability rating from EcoVadis establishing itself as one of the top performers with a score well above the overall average. The EcoVadis rating covers a total of 21 criteria which in turn are divided into four general areas: environment labour and human rights ethics and sustainable procurement. Encouraging sustainable operations across the entire value chain have been a key part of Sappis corporate strategy for many years. Sappis entire business model and investments in research and development are based on the use of renewable materials. The environment management approach of the global company includes a variety of strategies designed to improve its ecological footprint. For 2025 Sappi has linked its sustainability targets to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Sappi has long held principles based around People Planet and Prosperity and with a heightened focus on seven of the SDGs they believe they can deliver real impact and contribute to the global sustainable development agenda. The platinum rating from EcoVadis demonstrates that Sappi not only talks about sustainability but actively works towards ensuring it in a very practical way. The whole world is talking about sustainable solutions and looking for alternatives to fossil fuels. Sappi is focused on providing product solutions to the market. A few weeks ago the market leader presented a number of solutions relating to functional paper packaging as part of its Pro Planet Paper Packaging campaign to enable sustainable high-quality packaging for food and non-food products. Sappi Europe is extremely proud to have obtained the EcoVadis Platinum rating and while certification and recognition go a long way to helping our work we also acknowledge at Sappi Europe that we are part of a global community that need to continue to strive in all our business areas to create the change needed to help our customers become truly sustainable. The recyclable nature of products derived from woodfibre are essential to creating a more circular economy where the worlds resources are kept in use longer and more creatively. By responsibly sourcing materials reducing material waste and emissions carefully considering product end-of-life and aiming to use the full potential of trees we actively promote more sustainable systems explains Sarah Price Sappi Europes Sustainability Manager
Resolute Forest Products Reports Preliminary Second Quarter 2020 Results. On the business side weve seen stronger pulp pricing and higher lumber shipments in the second quarter offset by a weaker paper segment which reflects lower demand levels since the onset of the pandemic and our resulting capacity adjustments. – Yves Laflamme President and CEO of Resolute Forest Products. July 30 2020 - Resolute Forest Products Inc. today reported net income for the quarter ended June 30 2020 of $6 million or $0.07 per diluted share compared to net income of $25 million or $0.27 per diluted share in the same period in 2019. Sales were $612 million in the quarter a decrease of $143 million from the year-ago period. Excluding special items the company reported a net loss of $22 million or $0.25 per share compared to net income of $11 million or $0.12 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2019. The Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing economic slowdown have brought with them unprecedented challenges and business uncertainty said Yves Laflamme president and chief executive officer. I am grateful for the commitment of our employees contractors and suppliers and their loyalty and hard work: they pulled together allowing us to operate as an essential business true to our commitment to world-class safety while remaining committed to a job well done. Despite the challenging business environment except for the low-interest term loan used to finance the acquisition of the U.S. sawmills we repaid all of the borrowings we drew in Q1 and our liquidity improved to nearly $400 million. On the business side weve seen stronger pulp pricing and higher lumber shipments in the second quarter offset by a weaker paper segment which reflects lower demand levels since the onset of the pandemic and our resulting capacity adjustments. Were pleased with the integration of our recently-acquired U.S. sawmills and were excited about their
J.M. Huber Earns Global Sustainability Award. ATLANTA — J.M. Huber a sixth-generation family-owned business has earned the 2020 Sustainability in Family Business Award from The International Institute for Management Development (IMD) a Swiss business school and the Pictet Group a global wealth management company. The award acknowledges familyowned enterprises that stand out for their efforts performance and progress in the area of sustainability. More than 60 international family businesses from four continents were considered for the global award. An independent jury highlighted the Huber family’s commitment to sustainability and the company’s clear demonstration of a will to transform itself including the representation of sustainability on the board of directors and the Huber Principles which underpin its focus on the Triple Bottom Line (TBL) of People Planet & Profit when making critical business decisions. The company reports that respecting the environment treating employees well and being a good neighbor in the communities where Huber operates have all been part of its DNA since its founding in 1883. Huber’s TBL Sustainability Strategy is both a reflection and a strengthening of these goals. “This important recognition signifies our substantial progress over the last decade in making Huber a more sustainable company by strengthening our culture reducing our environmental footprint and enhancing the communities where we operate says Mike Marberry President & CEO of J.M. Huber Corp. “Winning the IMD-Pictet Sustainability in Family Business Award will certainly inspire us to become even bolder in driving an ambitious long-term sustainability vision for Huber.
Huber Signs Agreement to Acquire Remaining Stake in MAGNIFIN Joint Venture. Atlanta Georgia (US) – On May 4 J.M. Huber Corporation (Huber) signed a definitive agreement with RHI Magnesita (RHIM) to acquire their 50% ownership stake in the companies’ 50/50 joint venture MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH & Co. KG (“MAGNIFIN). This transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2021 pending regulatory approvals. Huber originally acquired its 50% ownership interest in MAGNIFIN as part of the purchase of the Martinswerk operation from Albemarle in 2016. Located in Bergheim Germany Martinswerk became part of the Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) Fire Retardant Additives (FRA) strategic business unit (SBU) which produces a wide range of halogen-free products for flame retardant and smoke suppression applications and aluminum oxides. Based in Breitenau Austria MAGNIFIN has been producing and selling premium magnesium hydroxide (MDH) products since 1991. MAGNIFIN® coated and uncoated magnesium hydroxides are environment friendly non-halogenated flame retardants used in a wide range of polymer applications especially thermoplastic materials and elastomers requiring high processing temperatures in excess of 300 °C. Typical flame retardant applications include energy and LAN (local area network) data cables automotive wire and cable engineering thermoplastics (e.g. connectors) and construction foils. “This transition is a strong strategic fit with HEM’s mission to own and operate specialty chemical and mineral companies with market leading positions says Dan Krawczyk President of Huber Engineered Materials. “This step forward demonstrates our commitment towards our customers to support their growth and our clear strategy to grow our halogen-free fire retardant business globally adds Victor Dean General Manager of HEM’s FRA Business. About Huber Engineered Materials Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) headquartered in Atlanta Georgia (US) is a global leader in the production of fine precipitated alumina trihydrate and magnesium hydroxide both non-halogenated fire retardants. Its FRA business unit has four manufacturing sites in North America and two in Europe one of which is the MAGNIFIN plant. HEM has been a trusted supplier of halogen-free fire retardants and smoke suppressants for almost 40 years manufacturing a large portfolio of value-added Hydral® Hymod® Martinal® and Micral® alumina trihydrates MAGNIFIN® Vertex® and Zerogen® magnesium hydroxides and Kemgard® molybdate compounds for a variety of end-use applications including reinforced polyester molding and pultrusion engineering thermoplastics roofing silicone rubber wire and cable coatings and carpet backing. In addition Huber produces Martoxid® calcined aluminum oxides Compalox® specialty oxides and Pergopak® carriers and matting agents. HEM is focused on engineered specialty chemical and minerals that enhance the performance appeal and processing of a broad range of products used in industrial agricultural and consumer applications and also has a portfolio of high value agricultural nutrients and adjuvants and industrial food and USP grade calcium carbonate products. For more information visit www.hubermaterials.com. About J.M. Huber Corporation J.M. Huber Corporation headquartered in Atlanta Georgia (US) operates a diverse portfolio of companies: CP Kelco Huber Engineered Materials Huber Engineered Woods and Huber Resources Corp. With locations around the world our businesses create products used in a broad range of applications including personal care food and beverage agricultural nutrients and adjuvants building materials flame retardants and smoke suppressants as well as sustainable forestry services. Founded in 1883 Huber is one of the largest family-owned companies based in the US. For more information visit www.huber.com.
Huber Engineered Materials Acquires Nutri Granulations Business in California. Huber Engineered Materials Acquires Nutri Granulations Business in California ATLANTA USA (April 1 2021) – Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) through its subsidiary J.M. Huber Micropowders Inc. today acquired the Nutri Granulations business assets of IMCD US LLC in La Mirada California. Nutri Granulations produces granular calcium carbonate and blends consisting of granulated calcium carbonate and vitamins which are used in the manufacturing of dietary supplements and food. The La Mirada location will operate as part of the Ground Calcium Carbonate (GCC) Strategic Business Unit within HEM. This acquisition helps to advance HEM’s mission to build a diverse portfolio of small to medium-sized chemical and mineral businesses that have a clear competitive advantage and future growth opportunities.
HUBERS FIRE RETARDANT ADDITIVES BUSINESS ANNOUNCES PRICE INCREASE FOR ITS KEMGARD® SMOKE SUPPRESSANTS. HUBERS FIRE RETARDANT ADDITIVES BUSINESS ANNOUNCES PRICE INCREASE FOR ITS KEMGARD® SMOKE SUPPRESSANTS ATLANTA GA (US) February 1 2021 – The Fire Retardant Additives (FRA) division of Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) a portfolio business of J.M. Huber Corporation announces a global price increase of 7.5% for its Kemgard® smoke suppressants effective April 1 2021 or as current contracts allow. While Huber continues to focus on minimizing the inflationary impact for its Kemgard products cost increases in raw materials labor packaging regulatory compliance and freight have necessitated this price adjustment. Huber is a global leader in the production of engineered molybdate compounds. Its FRA business unit has four manufacturing sites in North America and two in Europe. Huber has been a trusted supplier of halogen-free flame retardants and smoke suppressants for almost 40 years manufacturing a large portfolio of value-added Martinal® Hydral® Hymod® Micral® and MoldX® alumina trihydrates Magnifin® Vertex® and Zerogen® magnesium hydroxides and Kemgard® molybdate compounds for a variety of end-use applications including reinforced polyester molding and pultrusion engineering thermoplastics roofing silicone rubber wire and cable coatings and carpet backing. In addition Huber produces Martoxid® calcined aluminum oxides Compalox® specialty oxides and Pergopak® carriers and matting agents. ### About Huber Engineered Materials (www.hubermaterials.com) Huber Engineered Materials headquartered in Atlanta Georgia (US) is a global business focused on engineered specialty ingredients that enhance the performance appeal and processing of a broad range of products used in industrial agricultural and consumer applications. It has a portfolio of high value products: alumina trihydrate magnesium hydroxide agricultural nutrients and adjuvants molybdate compounds and industrial food and USP grade calcium carbonate. About J.M. Huber Corporation (www.huber.com) J.M. Huber Corporation headquartered in Edison New Jersey (US) operates a diverse portfolio of companies: CP Kelco Huber Engineered Materials Huber Engineered Woods and Huber Resources Corp. With locations around the world our businesses create products used in a broad range of applications including agriculture building materials food and beverage industrial personal care and sustainable forestry services. Founded in 1883 Huber is one of the largest family-owned companies based in the US.
Hubers FR Additives Division Announces Price Increase. Huber’s Fire Retardant Additives Division Announces Price Increase February 14 2021 KEYWORDS price increases Order Reprints No Comments ATLANTA – The Fire Retardant Additives (FRA) division of Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) a portfolio business of J.M. Huber Corp. announced a global price increase of 7.5% for its Kemgard® smoke suppressants effective April 1 2021 or as current contracts allow. Huber reports that while the company continues to focus on minimizing the inflationary impact for its Kemgard products cost increases in raw materials labor packaging regulatory compliance and freight have necessitated the price adjustment. Visit www.hubermaterials.com to learn more.
Huber Carbonates Announces New Distribution Partnerships. Huber Carbonates Announces New Distribution Partnerships The changes involve Huber’s ground calcium carbonate products for non-rubber industrial applications such as paints and coatings plastics inks grouts mortars stuccos adhesives caulks and sealants. November 13 2020 KEYWORDS additives / distributors / general business Order Reprints No Comments Huber Carbonates LLC a subsidiary of J.M. Huber Corp. recently announced a change in distribution partnerships in North America for its ground calcium carbonate (GCC) business. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020 the following distributors will represent Huber’s GCC products for non-rubber industrial applications such as paints and coatings plastics inks grouts mortars stuccos adhesives caulks and sealants: • Essential Materials Inc.—Western U.S. • Nagase America LLC.—Midwestern U.S. • Superior Materials Inc.—Northeastern U.S. • The Terra Firma Co. LLC.—Southeast through Texas U.S. Huber Carbonates LLC will continue its relationship with Akrochem Corp. for the rubber industry in the
Huber Carbonates Announces Price Increase. Huber Carbonates Announces Price Increase Huber Carbonates announced a price increase for its industrial calcium carbonate products. Coatings World staff11.03.20 Huber Carbonates LLC a subsidiary of J.M. Huber Corporation announced a price increase for its industrial calcium carbonate products generally ranging from 5 to 9 percent. The increase is effective January 1 2021 or as current contracts allow. The price increase does not apply to Huber’s food and USP calcium carbonate grades. In an ongoing effort to be a long-term sustainable partner Huber needs to increase prices on select product lines. Huber is committed to investing in new products technology sustainability and people to continue to be a market leader in performance mineral products. Our goal is to offer customers cost-effective and value-added alternatives to numerous formulation materials and components. Huber’s industrial calcium carbonate products are used in a variety of consumer and industrial applications including building materials drilling fluids rubber thermoset composites thermoplastics luxury vinyl tile flooring swimming pool aggregate cultured marble paints and coatings adhesives caulks and sealants.
Huber Launching Sustainability Project with New Power Plant in Germany. Huber Launching Sustainability Project with New Power Plant in Germany The project consists of a proposed replacement of the current lignite power plant with a natural gas-fired co-generation power plant to produce 100% of the required steam and electricity demand for the Martinswerk site. September 24 2020 KEYWORDS additives / general business / general manufacturing Order Reprints No Comments The Fire Retardant Additives (FRA) division of Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) a portfolio business of J.M. Huber Corp. recently announced it is preparing a plan for a sustainability project and substantial investment in a new power plant at its Martinswerk facility in Bergheim Germany. The project consists of a proposed replacement of the current lignite power plant with a natural gas-fired co-generation power plant to produce 100% of the required steam (thermal energy) and electricity demand for the production site. Doing so is expected to result in significant sustainability benefits including a 40% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions a 100% reduction of ash byproducts and the elimination of daily lignite truck traffic to the site which also decreases traffic and emissions throughout the local community. The current lignite power plant was built in the 1950s and is still reliably producing the required steam and electricity for the Bergheim site. Because Germany is phasing out coal-fired power plants by 2038 it is no longer economically viable to make significant investments in the current lignite power plant required to support its long-term operation. The next step in the project is to collaborate with the Works Council to develop a common strategy for the 32 employees working in the current power plant. The projected startup of the new power plant is planned for 2023. “This proposed substantial investment would further the company’s commitment to its corporate sustainability goals including the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions for the entire Huber enterprise by approximately 11% and is aligned with our strategy to strengthen our global halogen-free fire retardant and specialty aluminas business said Victor Dean senior vice president and general manager of FRA. “For Martinswerk this proposed strategic investment would be another milestone following significant investments made in Bergheim during the last five years under Huber ownership and a strong commitment to the long-term future of the site and business said Martin Schulting managing director of FRA Martinswerk and Europe Middle East Africa & India. For more information visit www.hubermaterials.com.
Memo from CEO - Respect for All People A stand Against Racism and Injustice. Respect for All People a Stand Against Racism and Injustice ATLANTA (June 4 2020) – In a memo to all Huber employees CEO Mike Marberry shared his thoughts on the series of racially biased tragedies in the United States and reiterated that the Company steadfastly supports peaceful and constructive demonstrations to help bring positive change. Over the last several weeks while still challenged by COVID-19 threats and a worsening economy our world is being further tested now by a series of racially biased tragedies in the United States. The recent killings of George Floyd Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor have thrown numerous cities and towns into social turmoil. This includes my own home here in Atlanta Georgia where many Huber employees and their families live and work. Atlanta has been under a nightly curfew the past four days—and this has just been extended now for the next five days. I believe most of the ongoing protests around the country and world are with a peaceful intent. The protesters are frustrated with countless social inequities and injustice and simply want their voices to be heard. Unfortunately in too many cities civil unrest has escalated into looting and violence. These destructive acts are not the way forward and they should not take our attention away from the real underlying social issue of racial discrimination and injustice. Huber clearly does not condone violence and criminal destruction. But the Company steadfastly supports peaceful and constructive demonstrations to help bring positive change. The way forward here is through kindness understanding empathy and justice. Our Company was built on the Huber Principles—fundamental beliefs that uphold fairness and tolerance for all people regardless of race. As CEO I want to reinforce our corporate social responsibility and express my passion for Huber’s core values. Huber’s commitment to equality precedes the Civil Rights era and movements such as Black Lives Matter. When Huber was establishing its carbon black business in the US a century ago the Company built a plant in Louisiana. The site featured housing for the plant workforce identical side-by-side buildings for both black and white employees with housing assignments determined by seniority not race. The Company also paid black employees the same as white employees. In 1920 these were very controversial moves by Huber. In the South racial segregation was the reality of living in the United States at that time. A group of local people marched on the Huber plant in protest. Hans Huber the son of founder Joseph Maria Huber held firm in his stance on treating all employees equally. The community would have to allow Huber to operate its plant with equality for all or Hans was prepared to move his carbon black operation out of town. There are numerous other examples throughout Huber’s history that reinforce our commitment to promoting racial equality and eliminating bias. At Huber one of our most defining cultural values is Respect for People. As such Huber will continue to advocate for racial justice. Huber family Shareholders are firmly committed to Diversity & Inclusion (D&I). Our own D&I journey through I Belong at Huber inspires us to treat all people with respect dignity and fairness. To make our commitment to D&I public two years ago I joined the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™. With more than 900 signatories to date the program is the largest CEOdriven business commitment ever to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace. A primary goal of this CEO-led community is to eliminate racial bias … period. In times like these it is not enough to focus only on doing what’s right within Huber. While many of our friends and colleagues are hurting and struggling because of these recent events I encourage all of you to bring our Respect for People Principle to life in an even stronger way. Share your voice. I stand with you to uphold equality for all people. Together we can demonstrate that racism and hatred have no place in our lives and communities. Improving today for a better tomorrow applies to more than just our products. It is within our reach to comfort others by listening and understanding their pain and frustration. Each of us has the power to help someone feel heard respected and valued
Rapid Response Saves Life at Marble Hill. It was just past noon on December 17 and a truck driver was leaving the Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) plant in Marble Hill Georgia with a load of ground calcium carbonate. The driver had been in the scale house just minutes before but now he was unconscious on the ground near his truck. Another driver on the scene witnessed the incident and alerted a HEM employee. The collapsed truck driver was not breathing and the first HEM employee to reach him could not find a pulse. Several members of the Marble Hill team leapt into action retrieving a mouth barrier to aid with mouth-to-mouth resuscitation calling 911 and using the two-way radio to request the automated external defibrillator (AED). The radio call for the AED triggered an impromptu relay race with multiple people running it across the plant until the device arrived on the scene. After two shocks with the defibrillator the driver began breathing again opened his eyes and attempted to sit up. Meanwhile several employees headed to Georgia Highway 53 to ensure the ambulance turned into the correct entrance to the facility. Just 15 minutes elapsed between the moment the driver collapsed to the arrival of the paramedics. The driver was rushed to Northside Hospital-Cherokee in Canton about 22 miles (35 kilometers) away. Part of the driver’s treatment included inserting a pacemaker to help prevent future cardiac incidents. For the Marble Hill team the incident reinforced the need to always be prepared and stay up to date on CPR training not just for people on-site or at plant environments but for everyone across Huber. Although the driver was not a Huber employee the care
Nouryon to acquire the carboxymethyl cellulose business of JM Huber. Nouryon accelerates growth with carboxymethyl cellulose acquisition January 30 2020 Nouryon is continuing its growth acceleration plans with an agreement to acquire the carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) business of J.M. Huber Corporation. The transaction will significantly broaden Nouryon’s portfolio of products in CMC a sustainable bio-based watersoluble polymer used as a thickener binder stabilizer and film former. The companies have largely complementary positions in CMC end markets which include home and personal care mining food pharmaceuticals and paper and packaging. The acquisition underlines Nouryon’s strategy of investing in attractive growth markets including bolt-on acquisitions. The business manufactures a complete line of CMC grades and serves customers in over 80 countries generating sales of around €135 million. It includes a world-class manufacturing facility as well as an advanced R&D facility located at Äänekoski Finland. Around 240 employees from the business will transfer to Nouryon. “We are excited by the opportunity to acquire this high-quality business said Charlie Shaver Chairman and CEO of Nouryon. “With an expansive range of products that complements our existing CMC portfolio this business will allow us to offer our current and future customers a significantly broader set of solutions. This acquisition also confirms our commitment to investing in sustainable growth platforms. We look forward to welcoming the employees of this business into the Nouryon family he said. “We’d like to thank our employees in the CMC business for their many years of service to J.M. Huber Corporation and for their strong dedication to the Huber Principles especially our values of safety environmental sustainability and operational excellence says Mike Marberry CEO & President of J.M. Huber Corporation. “We are very pleased that Nouryon which shares our core values will become the new strategic owner of this business and continue to provide excellent products and services to our long-standing CMC customers. Moelis & Company LLC acted as exclusive financial advisor to Nouryon and Latham & Watkins LLP acted as legal advisor. J.M. Huber Corporation was advised by Citi as exclusive financial advisor and DLA Piper as legal advisor. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020 subject to regulatory approvals.
Huber plans manufacturing facility in South Carolina - LBM Journal. Huber Engineered Woods has announced plans to establish operations in Dillon County South Carolina. The company’s $30 million investment is projected to create 30 new jobs in the area. Huber‘s new 109200-square-foot facility will treat paper materials used in ZIP System sheathing which features a patented integrated paper overlay that provides a water-resistant barrier. The Dillon facility will also supply a critical component of the ZIP System panel manufacturing process. In addition to featuring the latest paper treatment technology operations will implement the highest levels of safety standards environmental protection measures for pollution abatement and sustainability the company says. “Huber Engineered Woods LLC would like to thank the South Carolina Department of Commerce for welcoming this facility into the community. We look forward to being a key partner in the future success of the county and the state and are pleased to bring new employment opportunities to Dillon County and the surrounding areas. Environmental health and safety are core tenets to business practice at Huber. Our commitment to respect for people is paramount at our five engineered wood manufacturing sites our R&D facility and our Charlotte N.C. headquarters and it will be in our new Dillon S.C. location as well said HEW Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Strategy Kirk Blanchette in a press release. The new facility is projected to be open and operating by late 2020. The Coordinating Council for Economic Development awarded Dillon County a $400000 Rural Infrastructure Fund grant to assist
Miller® and Huber Share vision of Sustainable Responsible Agriculture. Miller® Chemical & Fertilizer LLC (Miller®) has a long history of producing branded specialty crop protection adjuvants additives soluble fertilizers and bio-stimulants for the global agricultural industry with a focus on fruits nuts and vegetables. It has proven to be an innovator in the industry creating safe adjuvant products and crop nutrients that reduce the environmental impact of crop protection and farm productivity measures. Its core values of Honesty Integrity Passion Teamwork and Stewardship have structured the company’s culture since its founding in 1937. It was the combination of sustainable products and services as well as the overall ethical company culture that made Miller® attractive to the family-owned portfolio management company J.M. Huber Corporation (Huber) when seeking to diversify its collection of services and explore growth opportunities. Huber is headquartered in Atlanta Georgia USA and has operations in over 20 countries around the world. The Company operates a diverse portfolio of businesses including Huber Engineered Materials (HEM) which acquired Miller® in April 2019. HEM is a global business focused on engineered specialty ingredients that enhance the performance appeal and processing of a broad range of products used in industrial agricultural and consumer applications. It has a portfolio of high value products: speciality alumina trihydrate magnesium hydroxide and molybdate compounds used for fire retardant additives agricultural nutrients and adjuvants and industrial food and United States Pharmacopeia grade calcium carbonate. Other Huber businesses include CP Kelco which offers nature-based ingredients for food and beverages personal care and countless other products around the world Huber Engineered Woods which provides high performance building envelope solutions and Huber Resources Corp which practices and supports sustainable forestry services. Though the portfolio is diverse the Huber Principles unify company culture across businesses. These principles are Environmental Health & Safety Sustainability Ethical Behavior Respect for People and Excellence. For the Huber enterprise these principles are a source of inspiration and innovation for employees world-wide and each of the businesses promotes and develops these principles in its own way. In August and September 2019 Miller® and its South African principal supplier Hygrotech were proud to sponsor the Integrated Pest and Disease Management Workshops of Citrus Research International (CRI) across South Africa (see article in this edition of the Hygrotech Forum). Being South Africa’s largest exported fresh commodity citrus plays a crucial role in providing employment opportunities. Miller® and Hygrotech are proud to have been able to contribute to these workshops with the purpose of finding appropriate solutions to various challenges and ensuring the future of the SA citrus industry. CRI’s promotion of responsible and sustainable Good Agricultural Practices is in line with Miller® and Huber’s business principles and generates a platform for the marketing of relevant Miller® products. Huber is also involved in citrus across the Atlantic Ocean in Brazil. CP Kelco’s brand promise is to “unlock nature-powered success. As one of the world’s leading pectin (a viscosity building agent found in citrus peels) producers CP Kelco is one of the largest buyers of Brazilian citrus. The limited availability of lemon and lime peels had historically hampered the sustainable growth of CP Kelco’s pectin production. However the company recently innovated a method to extract about 20% more pectin from citrus peels reducing their raw material supply risk. Additionally the process uses steam from biofuel as the heat source and minimizes water consumption resulting in a more environmentally responsible and sustainable practice. When the ultimate goal is to help customers win a success for one of Huber’s businesses is a success for the whole enterprise. Globally Miller® already provides products to farmers that support the healthy production of crops and assists crops to realize their genetic potential. As part of Huber Miller® will become even more focused on products that are both innovatively effective and sustainable towards the environment. Huber has the resources to support Miller® in achieving sustainable long-term growth while also providing more and enhanced sales and service channels allowing Miller® and its business partners to serve customers better than ever before.
Imerys plans major extension at Dorset ball clay operation. Imerys plans major extension at Dorset ball clay operation Mining company seeks approval to extend Doreys Pit site near Wareham BY William TelfordBusiness Editor Plymouth Live • 08:40 10 SEP 2021 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Aerial view over Imerys’ ball clay operations at Doreys Pit Sign up to FREE email alerts from BusinessLive - South West - Your Daily Regional Round-Up Of Latest Headlines Comment And Analysis Subscribe We use your sign-up to provide content in ways youve consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time.More info Proposals are being developed by Imerys Minerals for a major investment in the continued operation of Dorset’s traditional ball clay industry. Imerys is to seek approval to extend its Doreys Pit site near Wareham securing future production the jobs of dozens of employees and the significant indirect employment and economic activity generated by mining operations in Dorset. Ball clay has been regarded for many years as a mineral of national and international importance because of its special qualities and rare occurrence. It is used for the production of wall and floor tiles sanitaryware tableware and electrical and refractory products. Imerys has operated at Doreys for more than 40 years – one of five pits it operates in the Wareham area – and the ball clay industry itself in Dorset dates back to the late 1700s. The site is situated within Dorset’s Minerals Consultation Area (MCA) set up by Dorset Council to safeguard all the county’s minerals resources but especially the Dorset ball clay resource which it describes as “a scarce high quality resource “designated as a nationally important mineral. With the approval of Dorset Council Imerys has already carried out mineral exploration surveys and drilled boreholes to confirm the presence of clay in the proposed extension area at Bridewells which lies to the south west of the existing Dorey’s South site. The company has now submitted a Scoping Request to Dorset Council. This process will help shape the scope and extent of environmental and ecological surveys over the course of the next year and the details of a future planning application and accompanying environmental statement and restoration plan for the site. It is anticipated a planning application would be brought forward in Autumn 2022. Imerys is known in the area as a responsible operator winning awards for its environmental projects most recently for its work with Bournemouth University Group to increase fish numbers in the Toll Bar Stream at Doreys and the widely acclaimed transformation of the former Arne Ball Clay works into a RSPB nature reserve and nationally significant haven for wildlife. The proposed extension at Doreys is aimed at extending the life of the pit rather than increasing production and as a result traffic movements associated with carrying clay and aggregates (sand and gravel) from the site would remain at existing levels. Gary Staddon real estate and business development manager for Imerys Minerals said “Imerys is pleased to confirm its intention to continue investing in the future of Ball Clay operations in Dorset in order to meet the demands of society and our customers. “Dorset Ball Clays are a premium product in demand the world over for their quality and properties and our operations here contribute significantly to the local economy and the UK’s Balance of Trade. “As a responsible operator with a long history in the area Imerys is fully aware of the environmental constraints in which it operates within Dorset and works closely with the appropriate authorities and stakeholders to minimise operational impacts and to enhance the local environment wherever possible.
Imerys Talc reorg plan vote changes prompt confusion. Imerys Talc reorg plan vote changes prompt confusion contention in bankruptcy By Maria Chutchian 5 minute read United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly • Summary • Law firms • Related documents • Some claimants say 18000 votes should be tossed • Judge unclear about process for changing votes • Talc miner says there was nothing nefarious about changes The company and law firm names shown above are generated automatically based on the text of the article. We are improving this feature as we continue to test and develop in beta. We welcome feedback which you can provide using the feedback tab on the right of the page. (Reuters) - The judge overseeing Imerys Talc America’s bankruptcy says she needs more information about a bid to disregard 18000 votes on the former talc miner’s proposed restructuring plan that were changed after they were initially submitted which could interfere with the companys ability to push the deal forward. At a virtual hearing on Tuesday U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Laurie Selber Silverstein in Wilmington Delaware signed off on requests from insurers and a group of personal injury claimants to probe what they say are problems ranging from latefiled votes to potentially invalid votes. If votes in favor of the plan are tossed as one group of claimants represented by Arnold & Itkin have sought the current 80% approval of the plan among personal injury claimants could be at risk. Imerys Talc represented by Latham & Watkins filed for bankruptcy in February 2019 in the face of around 15000 lawsuits alleging its products caused ovarian cancer and asbestos-related mesothelioma. It was the U.S.-based unit of French group Imerys SA. In 2020 it was sold to Magris Resources Canada for $223 million. Those proceeds will go to a trust that under the company’s proposed Chapter 11 plan will pay personal injury claims. Imerys Talc collected votes on its proposed plan earlier this year but has since been hammered with allegations from opponents to the plan that the voting process was fraught with errors. The most glaring according to the Arnold group – which says it represents more than 2000 talc personal injury claimants – is the change of 18000 votes from other personal injury claimants who had rejected the plan to accepting the plan after the voting deadline. Report ad The company denies that there was anything improper about the vote changes. Complicating the situation is disagreement among Imerys Talc the Arnold claimants and others over the process by which claimants could change their votes. While Imerys Talc argues the votes were changed according to procedures outlined in an order Silverstein signed earlier in the case the Arnold group says anyone changing a vote needed to but did not file a motion with the court to do so. Silverstein herself admitted that she did not pay close attention to the provision of the solicitation procedures order governing vote changes. “Just because I signed it doesn’t mean it’s correct she said. Additionally Silverstein said she isn’t sure whether she has the authority to disregard the votes. She instructed lawyers for both sides to provide her more information on the dispute. Report ad The Arnold group was supported in its request to disregard those votes by Imerys Talcs former customer Johnson & Johnson which used Imerys-mined talc for its baby powder and has also faced extensive talc-related litigation. Johnson & Johnson has denied wrongdoing and says the Imerys Talc plan will lead claimants to seek more money from the pharmaceutical giant. Johnson & Johnson represented by Weil Gotshal & Manges also sought additional information about the voting process overall but reached a deal with Imerys Talc before Tuesday’s hearing. Of the more than 100000 votes that were submitted nearly 8000 were defective for various reasons including failing to actually accept or reject the plan or failing to include social security numbers according to Imerys attorney Kim Posin of Latham. Those issues she added are not out of the ordinary in collecting votes for a Chapter 11 plan. “These are not unusual things Posin said. Report ad The case is In re Imerys Talc America Inc. U.S. Bankruptcy Court District of Delaware No. 19-10289. For Imerys: Jeffrey Bjork Kimberly Posin Helena Tseregounis and Richard Levy of Latham & Watkins and Mark Collins Michael Merchant Amanda Steele and Brett Haywood of Richards Layton & Finger For the Arnold claimant group: Laura Davis Jones Debra Grassgreen John Morris and Peter Keane of Pachulski Stang Ziehl & Jones and Jason Itkin of Arnold & Itkin For Johnson & Johnson: Diane Sullivan Gary Holtzer Ronit Berkovich and Theodore Tsekerides of Weil Gotshal & Manges and Patrick Jackson of Faegre Drinker Biddle & Reath [This story has been corrected to reflect that Imerys is no longer mining talc and that Johnson & Johnson is no longer a customer.]
IMERYS OPENS A NEW PLANT IN INDIA DEDICATED TO THE REFRACTORY AND INFRASTRUCTURE MARKETS. IMERYS OPENS A NEW PLANT IN INDIA DEDICATED TO THE REFRACTORY AND INFRASTRUCTURE MARKETS Philippe Bourg Senior Vice President of our Refractory Abrasives & Construction business explains that while carrying out a 40 million euro project during a global pandemic was certainly an ambitious objective our teams stepped up to the challenge. As leaders within our industry we have a long-term strategy to expand our business globally and so we’ve done just that and commissioned a new plant in India. Imerys already has a long and successful track record in India with 16 industrial sites 8 sales offices 800 employees and 150 M€ of sales in 2020. Our country chairman Ish Garg has been instrumental in the past years in expanding our presence in this country. When it comes to steel China and India are the leading producers globally the next logical step for our refractory and building & infrastructure markets was to expand to these countries. As we had already expanded to China with 7 plants already operating India was our next move. Our aim for this expansion was to strengthen our local and global leadership by becoming key players across the world bolstering our market position. With this project our objective was to develop new market shares in India by being closer to local companies as well as benefiting from the local expertise of workers engineers and partners. This project started back in 2015 when the decision was made to buy land in Vizag which lies on the south east coast of India. An important consideration when buying the land was making sure the plant was near the sea for the import of raw materials as well as the distribution of domestic sales across India. Although India is part of the developing world we see the production of this plant as an opportunity we hope to be seen as an early bird in this thriving country and help local and other international players from across the globe develop their solutions in India for Refractory and Building & Infrastructure end markets. For the Refractory teams this was our first time working in India and we knew that the process may be slightly different to what we’re used to. When we work on a project in Europe we can work with local contractors and equipment which we are familiar with. When working in a completely new territory on a new continent there are many challenges and a lot of complexities related to the specificity of the Indian market in terms of standardised procedures workforce and skill but we were prepared to succeed. Since day one the team has been focused on driving this project forward but very quickly we realised that a project like this could only be run by someone with experience who knew our approach to maintenance quality control leadership and so on. We therefore organised training for the team in India who visited our plants in the UK and throughout Europe. The team were able to interact with their colleagues in the UK for instance getting to know them know the equipment and understand how we operate. This invaluable interaction between the teams generated a lot of positivity amongst the local workforce and teams in India and especially with what was coming our way. We were making great progress with the project before the pandemic hit which inevitably threw more difficulties our way. We had to set up remote control from our Technology Center in Lyon France where our teams were interacting daily with our colleagues in India through technology such as virtual reality cameras to ensure the commissioning of the plant was moving forward. Years back If I’d been told that one day we would start a plant remotely thanks to technology I couldn’t have believed it to be possible. HOW WE COMMISSIONED OUR VIZAG PLANT REMOTELY FROM LYON
LIQUID ASSETS THE SURPRISING ROLE OF MINERALS IN WINE FILTRATION. LIQUID ASSETS: THE SURPRISING ROLE OF MINERALS IN WINE FILTRATION Filtration is a commonly observed practice by winemakers across the world. For decades minerals such as diatomite and perlite have played a vital role in the process – removing unwanted substances and leaving wine producers with clear quality wines. In 2020 it was estimated that between 253.9 million and 262.2 million hectoliters of wine were produced across the globe – enough to fill more than 10000 Olympic-sized swimming pools. The majority of this wine would have gone through some form of filtration – the separating of solid particles from liquid – before being bottled sold and ultimately consumed. A common and the longest-serving method for filtering wine champagne and other sparkling wines is the use of mineral filter aids – solid materials that improve filtering efficiency. Filter aids prevent blockage by forming a porous filter cake (particles retained on the filter) around the filter allowing for the uninterrupted flow of liquid to pass through and trapping large solids. The filtration process for red and white wine Filtration in wine production is largely carried out to remove undesired solid components such as protein and yeast and for aesthetic reasons and to improve shelf-life. It can take place multiple times and at different stages of the production process depending on the type of wine that is being produced. The first stage commonly occurs during the crushing of the grapes – to remove the grape seeds and if producing white wine the skins. For red wine the skin of the grape is kept to give the wine its color. The resulting juice is then injected with yeast for the fermentation process when the yeast converts the juice sugars into alcohol. Two or three weeks later the next filtration phase takes place to remove the yeast and any precipitated materials from the wine. Again the liquid doesn’t need to be perfectly clear as it is transferred into maturation tanks or barrels for further ageing. Some protein complexes are still too small to filter – but if they are left over time they will form into a mass either making the wine cloudy or becoming a sediment at the bottom of the bottle. Therefore after filtration the wine is usually transferred to a large tank where a fining agent bentonite is added as a slurry in water. Over several days the bentonite chemically bonds (adsorbs) the proteins and settles at the bottom of the tank. This sludge is removed and the clarified wine above is sent to a storage tank (or barrels) for ageing and/or further filtration before bottling. The final filtration step – just before bottling – will be where wine producers look to get the best clarity possible. When producing red wine however this isn’t as much of a concern so this final filtration may not be required. As well as providing clarity and removing unwanted particles from wine filtration can also serve a necessary purpose in ensuring wine is safe to drink for those with specific allergen needs. Fining agents – often containing potential allergenic food proteins – are sometimes added to wine for a number of reasons including to modify the texture or flavor. While the fining process is designed to dispel all fining agents once their purpose has been served the use of best practice filtration methods – like filter aids – is still encouraged in order to confirm that no residual agents can be detected. Porous diatomite and perlite make excellent filter aids Imerys has been selling filter aids to the wine industry since the 1930s. It currently sells two of the most commonly used filter aids in wine production: diatomite and perlite. The properties of these natural and widely available minerals make them ideal for removing a wide variety of suspended solids. Matt Jordan Performance Minerals EMEA Technical Support Manager says: “Both diatomite and perlite are inert meaning they don’t negatively affect the quality of substances they come into contact with. They’re also widely permeable making it easy for liquids to pass through. “Diatomite in particular is also very porous with a structure comprising thousands of tiny holes that make it excellent for filtering liquids containing fine particles. With an efficient ability to trap solids less juice is lost in spent filter cakes when using filter aids leading to more juice being fermented. Filter aids also offer flexibility when it comes to the pore sizes in filtration as a range of different grades allows producers to choose how tight they want their filters to be. “The reason people don’t drink red wine fresh is because the complexity of the wine comes from small molecules combining – something that happens during the ageing process explains Matt. “Producers filter to give their wine a certain character. By offering them the chance to filter liquid using varying pore sizes according to their needs they can build complexity into their wines at their own rate. Wineries making boutique wines are most likely to use filter aids for filtration as quality is their number one priority. “Wineries all over the world – from Bordeaux to California – are very passionate about their processes and they take great care in the production of wine says Matt. “They favor tradition and this is shown in the products they produce. Sustainable solutions to filtration These days most of Imerys’ filter aids are supplied locally to customers in France Spain and Italy – the three largest producing countries of wine accounting for 49% of production across the world and 81% of EU wine production. This localized approach is helping to reduce the carbon footprint of Imerys’ products in turn supporting sustainability in the wine production supply chain. “Sustainability is a topic of major interest in the drinks industry and we’re working on ways in which we can help our customers to improve in this area says Matt. “We have a couple of ongoing projects to look at how we can reuse our filter aids and also extract minerals from used filter cakes for other purposes. “Wineries put a lot of care and passion into the winemaking process so it’s important that they’re able to find ways to be more sustainable without compromising the quality of their products and their craft.
THE DAILY GRIND - HOW MINERALS PLAY A KEY ROLE IN THE PRODUCTION OF COATED ABRASIVES. THE DAILY GRIND: HOW MINERALS PLAY A KEY ROLE IN THE PRODUCTION OF COATED ABRASIVES Synthetic abrasive grains such as fused aluminum oxide are at the heart of coated abrasives. Grinding and sanding are necessary actions in the production of almost all everyday products that require surface finishing. Whether you’re an industrial grinder or supplier professional manufacturer or someone with an interest in DIY coated abrasives like sandpaper and sanding belts are typically used to carry out these jobs – and at the heart of these products are synthetic abrasive grains such as fused aluminum oxide. One of the oldest needs of humankind has been to shape and grind tools in order to make them sharper or change their form. Our ancestors did this by using abrasive – materials typically minerals that shape or finish objects through a rubbing motion – and the method has continued to this day. As civilization evolved the development of grinding machines and techniques made the process more efficient and the abrasives market split into two major categories: bonded and coated. Bonded abrasives are abrasive grains held tightly together by a bonding agent and formed into a specific shape – typically that of a wheel. Coated abrasives on the other hand contain abrasive grains that are bonded to base materials like cloth or paper with adhesive taking the form of sandpaper and sanding belts. Raphael Gasser an abrasives specialist at Imerys says: “Bonded abrasives are typically used for cutting and grinding various work materials with defined shapes while the uses for coated abrasives are more commonly for grinding large surfaces polishing applications and finer surface finishes. Both coated and bonded abrasives are used for a wide range of industrial applications as well as in the DIY market. Up until around 100 years ago all abrasive articles were made from natural minerals but when the needs of manufacturers and consumers became more sophisticated research was done to create synthetic abrasive minerals that could provide the requirements desired. Using natural minerals to create enhanced manufactured minerals The most common synthetic mineral in circulation today is fused aluminum oxide (FAO). FAO is made from processing minerals such as raw bauxite the first step of which involves passing the mineral through an electric arc furnace. The resulting product is then cooled crushed and sized and then finally blended. Various product enhancements. such as mechanical chemical ceramic or thermal treatments are also possible. The main quality criteria that manufacturers look for in the resulting grain include: • Chemical composition • Homogeneity (guaranteeing a constant quality for the customers) • Hardness • Toughness • Size distribution (according to international standards) • Quality of the coating on the grain. The type of synthetic mineral being produced will play a role in some of the resulting criteria. “Our various fused aluminum oxide types are different in terms of hardness and toughness explains Raphael. “FAO is in general a very hard mineral. Its number nine on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness while number 10 is diamond. “When considering regular FAO qualities it is usually the case that a harder material shows less toughness whereas a tough material has less hardness. Which material the customer chooses depends mainly on the work-material that will be sanded with the abrasive article. “Tougher grains have a longer lifetime while harder grains are more aggressive. If we look at white fused alumina as an example it is very hard but not that tough making it good for sanding wooden surfaces. On metal it would be too brittle however so a tougher grain would be the better choice. Producing fused aluminum oxide that caters to a wide range of needs Imerys is the world’s largest producer of FAO based products predominantly for the bonded and coated abrasives market with a product portfolio that is unmatched in terms of size and variety. Its Alodur® range is designed to serve the varying needs of abrasives manufacturers. Chemical elements change the properties and stability of the FAOs and each combination can be identified by its color – from brown to white to pink – allowing manufacturers to mix and match in order to get the performance they need. In addition to regular fused aluminum oxide Imerys also offers high-performance abrasive minerals like Sol Gel – a microstructured ceramic grain that provides a unique aggressive grinding performance. This grinding performance combines the high toughness and high hardness of the grain with the ability to self-sharpen. Abrasive grains’ edges are naturally very sharp. Specific grain shapes can be produced by using different milling technology resulting in pointed angular or cubic forms. “In general pointed and angular grains are most commonly used for coated abrasives says Raphael “as they have a more aggressive grinding behavior. But each custo
TRANSFORMING PERLITE WASTE RESIDUE INTO CONSTRUCTION BRICKS. TRANSFORMING PERLITE WASTE RESIDUE INTO CONSTRUCTION BRICKS 50 houses in Argentina have already been constructed with a new type of bricks made with 90% perlite residue - this is a perfect illustration of applying circular economy to the mineral industry. The Imerys plant in Tucumán Argentina has developed a more efficient way to eliminate waste from the manufacturing of perlite which is essential for several markets such as filtration civil construction and agribusiness - among others. This perlite waste is now used in the manufacturing of brick! Before that perlite waste residue was used to fill arid quarries an end use that met environmental criteria but generated more costs and less value to society. In 2018 the plant began donating perlite waste residue to a local cooperative called “Los Parceros (the Partners in English). The cooperative produces the brick in the Tucumán region using 90% perlite waste residue and 10% cement. Álvaro Alderete president of the “Los Parceros Cooperative explains the production steps. “The process begins with the transport of bagged perlite waste residue. We then introduce it to our production lines by adding the cement and water to begin the mixing process. As the mix becomes the right consistency it’s placed in the hydraulic press - from where the bricks are formed and allowed to dry for a day. After that they are stacked on pallets and stored for 28 days until they are ready to be used in construction. Each ton of perlite waste residue provides enough material to produce 1000 bricks which have excellent thermal and acoustic insulation attributes. Because of the high perlite content the bricks are lighter easier to handle and more uniform than a regular brick. As a result the bricks are easier to assemble which helps speed up the entire construction process. Another advantage is that during production the bricks can be dried naturally in the open air without the use of a furnace thereby reducing energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions. While this makes the production process longer it reduced the overall environmental footprint of the final product. The partnership started 3 years ago with small trials quantities made with perlite residues to test the possibility of creating bricks. The tests progressed successfully over time and in 2020 the cooperative began production on a larger scale. By February 2021 40000 bricks were produced that were used in the construction of 50 houses. The Tucumán plant has the capacity to donate approximately 220 tons of waste per month which will increase the donation and with it the production of bricks to meet increased local demand. “This is an example of circular economy which benefits the environment the company and the surrounding community said Jacqueline Correa Head of Quality and Integrated Management Systems (IMS) of Imerys in Tucumán The raw material does not end up as a waste it enters a manufacturing process again to generate a new product. We are looking for innovative ways not only to reduce the environmental impact of our operations but also to provide the community with sustainable product alternatives. Take a look at the process to produce the perlite waste residue bricks:
Imerys_New perlite innovation lab in Salin de Giraud France_LinkedIn post. Last week we inaugurated our new perlite innovation lab in Salin de Giraud France. This plant is focused on exploring new products and processes for perlite in the pilot phase before it goes to Industrialisation. Our team of experts will also support perlite operations sites around the world. Perlite is a key mineral used in cosmetic scrubs (personal care market) #filtration (beverages and blood plasma) and lightweighting of materials (construction coatings). Read more about perlite at Imerys: https://bit.ly/3gvy99D
New ground calcium carbonate-based product supports raffia bag producers _ Imerys. NEW GROUND CALCIUM CARBONATE-BASED PRODUCT SUPPORTS RAFFIA BAG PRODUCERS 8 June 2021 Performance Minerals APAC develops new generation GCC product to break into India’s largest plastic market. Imerys is using its expertise in ground calcium carbonate (GCC) to resolve inconsistencies facing master batch manufacturers who supply to raffia bag manufacturers. Raffia – or woven sacks – uses plastic tapes woven into fabric and can be made with polypropylene (PP) or high-density polyethylene (HDPE). It includes a huge range of products such as the fabric used in tarpaulins and geotextiles and bags for items such as food (salt sugar rice) cement fertilizer and sand. Its strength lightness longevity - and with lamination good moisture barrier properties - make it a more practical packaging material than jute bags. The market in India alone is significant – the calcium carbonate demand from the Raffia segment is estimated at 500000 MT per year. The Performance Minerals (PM) APAC team has been working with key players in the industry to resolve issues where the process speed has increased significantly and has become a challenge for dispersion with existing products in the market. With input from key stakeholders PM APAC has improved processes and developed two new products which are key components for making a compound in combination with PP or HDPE before using it to manufacture woven bags. ® ® 6/9/2021 New ground calcium carbonate-based product supports raffia bag producers | Imerys https://www.imerys-performance-minerals.com/new-ground-calcium-carbonate-based-product-supports-raffia-bag-producers 2/2 ImerCarb Ultra and ImerCarb Ultra Plus have been developed with raffiarelated master batches in mind. They are compounded with polymers and additives at predetermined ratios and formulations to suit specific requirements such as the tenacity of tapes lower friction lower water carriage and unhindered processing – both for the master batch manufacturer and raffia bag manufacturer. High brightness marble ore is used and top cut is tightly controlled to meet the stringent requirements of the customer. The tricky thing says Sudheer Narasipur Sales Manager APAC India is to get these properties right. “Coated GCC used in raffia-related compounds is a challenging product says Sudheer. “It involves making a dispersion-centric compound that is mixed in varying formulations with base polymer and extruded into sheets which are further split into tapes. These tapes are rolled on bobbins which are used on weaving machines to make fabrics. A GCC like ImerCarb Ultra or ImerCarb Ultra Plus makes up at least 80% of the whole compound. This needs to be of finely controlled particle size. These compounds are mixed into polymers based on a fixed ratio needed for the final product. Another key element is the fatty acid coating on the GCC. A variation in this could result in improper mixing and cause tape breakage during sheet extrusion so the customer would have to start the whole process from scratch with huge loss of material and time. Our predetermined level of coating used has been fine-tuned based on customer feedback. Having analyzed the inconsistencies and faults of its own previous generation products and those available in the market the Imerys team developed the Ultra range and made trials for customers and finalized the specs to ensure the process was repeatable and consistent. Key parameters like PSD distribution coating level control and residue checks were introduced to offer a better controlled product. These products are produced at Imerys Ipoh plant in Malaysia. ImerCarb Ultra is specifically designed to be used in high-speed raffia applications. ImrCarb Ultra Plus can be used at high-end end applications and is being tried in more challenging applications such as UPVC profiles and PVC wire and cable compounds and is showing promise. Launched last year these products are gaining popularity among key manufacturers in India who make the master batches or compounds and supply them to Raffia bag and fabric manufacturers. These raffia manufacturers then mix or dilute the master batch/compound with base polymers like PP or HDPE and make the fabric and bags and sell on to end user industries. “India was in lockdown so we couldn’t hold face-to-face meetings however the product development was so good and the pricing so competitive that it has been selling well says Sudheer “Currently we are moving more than 1000 tons a month but the market is huge – we are slowly but steadily building up. “We are looking forward to reaching more customers and working with them on site to test and refine the products says Sudheer. “Each customer has a different challenge so we want to make sure that the products work effectively for all of them.
Imerys Performance Minerals extends lab facilities in Toulouse _ Imerys. IMERYS PERFORMANCE MINERALS EXTENDS LAB FACILITIES IN TOULOUSE 8 June 2021 Imerys Performance Minerals has extended its Science & Technology lab facilities in Toulouse southwest France. Geared towards our customers operational requirements the idea behind the investment is to speed up the launch of new products to meet the emerging needs of our key markets. The 2500m² premises plays host to some 50 experts and features state-of-the-art equipment for the polymers rubber paint ceramics building materials filtration health and food & feed markets. The new extended facilities at our S&T lab in Toulouse have officially opened. Renovations on site include a new lab completed at the end of 2020. The extended complex which now covers an area of around 2500m² and plays host to some 50 scientists will help speed up the launch of new products to meet customers’ operational needs and future trends and challenges of Imerys’ key markets. 6/9/2021 Imerys Performance Minerals extends lab facilities in Toulouse | Imerys https://www.imerys-performance-minerals.com/imerys-performance-minerals-extends-lab-facilities-toulouse 2/2 Customers and manufacturers already recognize the Toulouse lab as a benchmark for the development of new solutionsbased on minerals for plastic materials (virgin recycled and biopolymer resins) elastomers and life sciences. It is a renowned center of excellence for dynamic research and development of polymer applications and Imerys’ colleagues based there have close access to academic and scientific resources in the region. The team also work to share knowledge and findings with labs elsewhere in Europe as well as the United States and Asia. The scope of the Toulouse lab covers: “This extended lab allows us to simulate the use of our mineral solutions in the production processes of our customers under real conditions. Emphasis is also placed on the life cycle of our new products an increasingly important criterion in the ecological transition of European industry says Guillaume Delacroix Senior Vice President of Imerys in charge of Performance Minerals EMEA. Frédéric Jouffret Vice President for Performance Minerals Science & Technology adds: The integration of new application laboratories in the Toulouse Technical Center will enable us to reinforce our development capabilities for performance minerals to maximize efficiency and reach a critical mass of scientists to accelerate innovation.
How to achieve efficient enamel cleaning with natural solutions_Imerys. How to achieve efficient enamel cleaning with natural solutions? 31-May-2021 Ingredients In the pursuit of healthy white teeth with natural ingredients Imerys has engineered an innovative natural mineral grade specifically designed to maximise toothpaste efficacy while respecting the enamel of the teeth. To answer consumers’ demand for more natural toothpaste composition without compromising its performance Imerys developed ImerCare KaoBright a natural “COSMOS approved kaolin as an alternative to abrasive synthetic silica. Thanks to the unique particle shape resulting from a specific process ImerCare KaoBright confers a high polishing action generating a whitening effect and smooth enamel surface. ImerCare KaoBright is tailor-made for overall oral care health. For more efficacy ImerCare KaoBright can be combined with other natural toothpaste ingredients such as ImerCare PerlWhite 19 a natural perlite from ImerCare oral care range. In fact the duo boosts the cleaning properties and significantly upgrades the naturality index of the toothpaste. It can be also incorporated into innovative toothpaste formulations such as solid toothpastes. Using toothpastes containing ImerCare Oral Care grades clean the surface of the teeth without scratching minimising damage to enamel dentin root surfaces and gum tissue.
A COMMITMENT TO TACKLE CLIMATE CHANGE IMERYS ISSUES FIRST SUSTAINABILITY-LINKED BOND. A COMMITMENT TO TACKLE CLIMATE CHANGE: IMERYS ISSUES FIRST SUSTAINABILITY-LINKED BOND Imerys is demonstrating its confidence in its sustainability roadmap by linking its financing strategy to its sustainability ambitions. Imerys has become the first industrial minerals and mining company to include Sustainability-Linked Bonds (SLBs) in its financing strategy. Imerys issued to investors its first SLB for €300 million on May 6 2021. SLBs like traditional bonds allow large companies to request financing from an investor or investors. While the money does not need to be invested into a specific green or sustainable project the beneficiary organization (the “issuer) must have achieved an agreed quantitative sustainability target based on an environmental social or governance (ESG)-related key performance indicator (KPI) by the time the bond reaches maturity to avoid paying a premium. Imerys’ decision to adopt this new financial instrument shows its commitment to long-term value creation through its sustainability and climate change ambitions. Leah Wilson Corporate Social Responsibility Vice-President for Imerys says: “Sustainability-Linked Bonds satisfy a growing appetite among investors for sustainable finance as a means to support the transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy. The KPIs we need to achieve must be beyond business as usual based on science and measurable and verifiable. “Our SustainAgility ambition as well as our KPIs and action plans to achieve them were thoroughly reviewed by an independent third-party auditor Cicero Shades of Green who have issued a Second Party Opinion (SPO). The entire SLB process is defined by a series of voluntary guidelines called the Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles (“SLBP) which cover structuring features disclosure and reporting to ensure transparency and credibility. Investors want to know who and what they are investing in genuinely has green or sustainable principles at heart. Science-based emissions reduction targets As part of SustainAgility Imerys has several CSR objectives aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Key among these it has set a target – validated by the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) – to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 36% relative to revenue (tCO2/M€) by 2030 from a 2018 base year in alignment with a 2°C trajectory. For its first Sustainability-Linked Bond Imerys has also set a specific intermediate performance target to reduce its greenhouse gas emission intensity by 22.9% by the end of 2025. “We have developed a Sustainability-Linked Bond framework document that explains to investors what we are going to do to reduce direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions continues Leah. “If we do not achieve our KPIs by the end of the bond’s life we will have to pay a premium to the SLB investors. That is the challenge for any issuer but we are really serious about our sustainability roadmap. “We are keen to find innovative ways to embed sustainability in all we do and integrate our processes tools and operations and the way we spend money with our CSR targets. Everyone in the Group is committed and involved in achieving our climate change ambitions. Sustainability-Linked Bonds: how do they work? Sustainability-Linked Bonds were first introduced in 2019. They complement green bonds and other sustainable finance instruments. The “issuer (the organisation seeking funds through the bond) does not need to allocate the finance to a specific environmental project but must commit to achieving a sustainability-related KPI by the end of the bond term. Over a couple of days the issuer presents the rationale for the transaction and explains its CSR program and then interested investors place their orders in an online “book. There is theoretically no limit to how much finance the issuer can request the amount being rather limited by the appetite of investors for the issuer credit. The price – the interest amount that must be paid back each year – will typically increase with the bond amount. The interest is paid annually. A premium is normally paid if the issuer has not achieved its KPIs Cédric Boulier Imerys’ Group Treasury Vice-President says: “To a certain extent SLBs are driven by regulation. Certains investors are specialized in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and are obliged to invest in CSR bonds whereas others more generalist can decide on their own to invest in CSR bonds. There has been a clear change in mindset and more and more investors recognise the role they can play in supporting industry to reduce emissions and develop low-carbon solutio
CRYOGENIC PERLITE MEETS URGENT MEDICAL OXYGEN BOTTLES NEED IN BRAZIL STATE RAVAGED BY COVID. CRYOGENIC PERLITE MEETS URGENT MEDICAL OXYGEN BOTTLES NEED IN BRAZIL STATE RAVAGED BY COVID-19 With a desperate lack of healthcare supplies for Covid-19 patients in Brazil’s largest state Imerys produced and delivered 3.3 tonnes of cryogenic perlite that was essential for safeguarding bottles of medicinal oxygen at the right temperature. In Amazonas a state in the North of Brazil a devastating surge in Covid-19 cases at the beginning of 2021 led to a dramatic increase in the daily consumption of medicinal oxygen in the region. Hospitals and emergency services have been struggling to cope with the virus and the state governor Wilson Lima described the escalation of infections as “the most critical moment of the pandemic something unprecedented in the state of Amazonas. Quick response to provide medical supplies during Covid-19 crisis Imerys worked quickly with one of its customers a manufacturer of industrial and medicinal gases to deliver the urgently needed supplies once again demonstrating the essential importance of minerals during the pandemic. Cryogenic material – produced at Imerys’ Paulínia site in São Paulo – is a fundamental element in the production transportation and conservation of oxygen. In less than half a day Imerys’ Paulínia plant produced 60m³ of cryogenic perlite which was transported to Manaus by Brazilian Air Force planes. How is cryogenic perlite used for the safe storage and transport of oxygen? Atmospheric air is composed of nitrogen and oxygen and is the raw material for cryogenic distillation. By compression and then cooling of this air to very low temperatures (below -150°C) the oxygen is liquified and separated. Thermal insulation is essential for its safe storage and transport. Cryogenic perlite – an expanded form of the perlite rock – has low thermal conductivity and is non-combustible making it ideal for storage of liquid gases at -270°C. Filling the space between the double walls of tanks and vessels that contain the oxygen it helps liquid gases keep their temperature. Cryogenic perlite has the best relation benefit/cost and John Alexander Gil Vega from Imerys’ Technical Expert team explains Imerys’ ore and expansion process. “The crushed perlite rock is quickly heated in a vertical furnace to a temperature above 1000°C at which point it begins to soften to a plastic state where the entrapped combined water vaporizes. “This thermal process causes the material to expand. Perlite can grow up to 15 or 20 times its original volume and has a bulk density from 50 to 120 kg/m³. The cryogenic perlite produced at the Paulínia plant has a bulk density of 50kg/m3 so it is one the lightest products of its kind.
THE DAILY GRIND HOW MINERALS PLAY A KEY ROLE IN THE PRODUCTION OF COATED ABRASIVES. THE DAILY GRIND: HOW MINERALS PLAY A KEY ROLE IN THE PRODUCTION OF COATED ABRASIVES Synthetic abrasive grains such as fused aluminum oxide are at the heart of coated abrasives. Grinding and sanding are necessary actions in the production of almost all everyday products that require surface finishing. Whether you’re an industrial grinder or supplier professional manufacturer or someone with an interest in DIY coated abrasives like sandpaper and sanding belts are typically used to carry out these jobs – and at the heart of these products are synthetic abrasive grains such as fused aluminum oxide. One of the oldest needs of humankind has been to shape and grind tools in order to make them sharper or change their form. Our ancestors did this by using abrasive – materials typically minerals that shape or finish objects through a rubbing motion – and the method has continued to this day. As civilization evolved the development of grinding machines and techniques made the process more efficient and the abrasives market split into two major categories: bonded and coated. Bonded abrasives are abrasive grains held tightly together by a bonding agent and formed into a specific shape – typically that of a wheel. Coated abrasives on the other hand contain abrasive grains that are bonded to base materials like cloth or paper with adhesive taking the form of sandpaper and sanding belts. Raphael Gasser an abrasives specialist at Imerys says: “Bonded abrasives are typically used for cutting and grinding various work materials with defined shapes while the uses for coated abrasives are more commonly for grinding large surfaces polishing applications and finer surface finishes. Both coated and bonded abrasives are used for a wide range of industrial applications as well as in the DIY market. Up until around 100 years ago all abrasive articles were made from natural minerals but when the needs of manufacturers and consumers became more sophisticated research was done to create synthetic abrasive minerals that could provide the requirements desired. Using natural minerals to create enhanced manufactured minerals The most common synthetic mineral in circulation today is fused aluminum oxide (FAO). FAO is made from processing minerals such as raw bauxite the first step of which involves passing the mineral through an electric arc furnace. The resulting product is then cooled crushed and sized and then finally blended. Various product enhancements. such as mechanical chemical ceramic or thermal treatments are also possible. The main quality criteria that manufacturers look for in the resulting grain include: • Chemical composition • Homogeneity (guaranteeing a constant quality for the customers) • Hardness • Toughness • Size distribution (according to international standards) • Quality of the coating on the grain. The type of synthetic mineral being produced will play a role in some of the resulting criteria. “Our various fused aluminum oxide types are different in terms of hardness and toughness explains Raphael. “FAO is in general a very hard mineral. Its number nine on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness while number 10 is diamond. “When considering regular FAO qualities it is usually the case that a harder material shows less toughness whereas a tough material has less hardness. Which material the customer chooses depends mainly on the work-material that will be sanded with the abrasive article. “Tougher grains have a longer lifetime while harder grains are more aggressive. If we look at white fused alumina as an example it is very hard but not that tough making it good for sanding wooden surfaces. On metal it would be too brittle however so a tougher grain would be the better choice. Producing fused aluminum oxide that caters to a wide range of needs Imerys is the world’s largest producer of FAO based products predominantly for the bonded and coated abrasives market with a product portfolio that is unmatched in terms of size and variety. Its Alodur® range is designed to serve the varying needs of abrasives manufacturers
Imerys Performance Minerals price increase_April_27_2021. Imerys Performance Minerals announces price increases effective May 1st 2021 At Imerys we constantly strive to fulfill our commitment to our customers in terms of safety quality and security of supply. For more than a year now we have all faced extraordinary events that have created unique challenges across the manufacturing landscape. Over the last several months a host of market conditions have unexpectedly worsened resulting in unprecedented cost pressures in manufacturing supply labor packaging and logistics. Under these exceptional circumstances and in order to continue to meet its customers’ service expectations Imerys Performance Minerals will be implementing surcharges and increases ranging from 3% to 10% effective beginning May 1st 2021. Actual charges will vary depending upon the market drivers impacting specific products and geographies as well as contractual agreements. Please be assured that providing you with the best possible service and quality remains our priority. Your local Imerys Sales Manager is available should you require further information and support. Best regards Imerys Performance Minerals Management Team
Two innovative minerals for make-up powders - Premium Beauty News_Imerys. ImerCare Imerys’ range of products dedicated to personal care aims to offer 100% natural minerals and Cosmos-approved alternatives to the end user. This year the Group stands out with two natural mineral launches for make-up applications. ImerCAre 6M a French sourced Mica has been specially designed for make-up bases and is compliant with sustainability norms. ImerCare VitalSkinresponds to current challenges such as the impact of pollution on the skin. These two minerals bring a real value to make-up formulation and here is why. ImerCare 6M: Sustainable mineral base for make-up powders Sustainability is a concept that is increasingly spreading throughout society and industries. A concept also shared with end consumers who want to see more transparency and traceability regarding the composition of their products. In its quest for sustainable product development Imerys lately engineered ImerCare 6M a 100% natural and Cosmos-approved mica sourced in France. This mica is ideal for powder foundations eyeshadows and blushes and is twice as cohesive as standard mica found on the market. While conferring high cohesiveness in pressed powders this patented mica ensures good sensoriality transparency Imerys 20 April 2021 SHARE: luminosity and can be incorporated up to 70% in compact powder formulation. Numerous tests have been performed in the laboratory to highlight mica’s good sensorial properties and good cohesiveness in pressed powders compared to the benchmark. ImerCare 6M is twice more cohesive than standard mica Sustainable product life cycle of ImerCare 6M Imerys is making a significant difference by offering a mica sourced in Brittany - France where respect for the environment has always been a key commitment. The site has been ISO 14001 certified for over ten years and is contributing to preserving the environment through a number of important initiatives. These include making extensive use of recycled water during the production process as well as outreach projects such as the supply of sand to rebuild local beaches. Natural antipollution agent: ImerCare VitalSkin a preventive shield to the skin Air pollution is on the rise worldwide and is a daily challenge for the skin. Indeed miniscule pollution particles enter the body via the pores of the skin causing heightened sensitivity premature and accelerated ageing. To counter this phenomenon Imerys designed ImerCare VitalSkin a patented diatomaceous earth. When integrated into make-up powders this new technology has an absorption mechanism which shields the skin from pollution particles. The efficacy of ImerCare VitalSkin has been demonstrated by ex-vivo laboratory tests designed to assess the effectiveness of this natural antipollution agent against cigarette smoke exposure - containing a large range of major pollutants. Results show that the new diatomaceous earth grade has a preventive action on skin blocking the penetration of polluting particles. Thanks to its unique microporous structure the new diatomaceous earth offers skin cell and DNA protection against pollutants differentiating it from skin repair solutions found on the market
Pulling their weight_ how minerals contribute to lightweighting vehicles _ Imerys. PULLING THEIR WEIGHT: HOW MINERALS CONTRIBUTE TO LIGHTWEIGHTING VEHICLES Cars are getting lighter – reducing CO2 emissions while maintaining high safety standards thanks to mineral-infused plastic parts. If you’ve ever had to push start a vehicle you’ll be pleased to know that cars are getting lighter. But spare a thought for Reverend Kevin Fast (pictured) who has built his strongman reputation on pushing and pulling the heaviest modes of transport he can find. Among the multiple Guinness 4/8/2021 Pulling their weight: how minerals contribute to lightweighting vehicles | Imerys https://www.imerys.com/news-stories/pulling-their-weight-how-minerals-contribute-lightweighting-vehicles 2/6 World Records he holds the Canadian pastor has pulled the most cars (15) by an individual and the heaviest vehicle (a 99060kg/218389lbs truck) over 100 feet. In 1977 when the World’s Strongest Man tournament introduced the vehicle pull event cars were weighed down by bodies and parts made almost entirely of aluminium iron and steel. It wasn’t until the following decade that the trend for lightweighting and the use of polymers for external car parts took off. Imerys’ Leonardo Cunha Marketing Manager for polymers explains: “Car manufacturers were looking for lighter materials in order to increase vehicle efficiency and reduce energy consumption – and emit less CO2 emissions per kilo of car. They also wanted to be able to produce more sophisticated designs. Soon polymers replaced many metal parts such as bumpers spoilers trims tailgates and interior parts. Manufacturers could reduce the weight of the car without necessarily reducing the size of the car because the density of materials used is lower. The lightweight vehicle consumes less fuel because it needs less energy to get from point A to point B. Gilles Meli Imerys Senior Science & Technology Development Manager for polymers says: “It is commonly agreed that reducing the car weight by 100kg/220lbs. leads to a reduction of 4g/km CO2 for a thermal engine. These traditionally metal parts that have been replaced with lighter polymers are as important in electric cars as they counterbalance the batteries which are heavier than an internal combustion engine. Plug-in cars which over their lifetime are expected to have a lower carbon footprint than non-electric cars can further benefit the environment if they are also lighter and therefore consume less energy on journeys. 4/8/2021 Pulling their weight: how minerals contribute to lightweighting vehicles | Imerys https://www.imerys.com/news-stories/pulling-their-weight-how-minerals-contribute-lightweighting-vehicles 3/6 Talc improves stiffness and impactresistance Safety regulation continues to evolve to make sure that the polymer elements replacing steel plates in these fuel-efficient cars do not put drivers or passengers at greater risk. Automotive plastic parts can only be used because the right additive minerals bring the best rigidity which therefore means there is a minimum impact. In the event of an accident the energy is dispersed because of its flexibility plastic is better than metal for absorbing the shock preventing the energy from transmitting to the driver or passenger. As well as being naturally lighter than metal plastic is more malleable and easier to mould into thin and complex parts that are not possible with steel. Talc is blended with polypropylene to provide the necessary stiffness and the melted compound is injected into moulds. Gilles Meli says: “Designers and engineers can rethink the geometry of car parts and develop solutions that are more efficient at absorbing shocks. Plastic enables manufacturers to make compositions of different elements or create smaller interior parts that you cannot see – that fill small gaps – that further help absorb the impact. If you can reduce the thickness of parts that also makes cars lighter. “Additionally says Leonardo “the flexibility of plastic has given car designers greater freedom. The futuristic cars we have today have only been possible because polymers have allowed us to move out of square metal box shapes. Not only have we enabled metal replacement in the past but we are also enabling the usage of less mineral loading and the replacement of more expensive polymers solutions.
GOING THE EXTRA MILE - HOW GRAPHITE & CARBON BLACK MAKE ELECTRIC CARS GO THE DISTANCE. GOING THE EXTRA MILE: HOW GRAPHITE & CARBON BLACK MAKE ELECTRIC CARS GO THE DISTANCE Environmental regulation might be driving the trend for increased manufacturing of electric cars but high-quality ingredients in their batteries are ensuring drivers reach their destinations safely and reliably. When the EU Commission unveiled its mobility strategy in December 2020 its ambition to get 30 million electric cars on European roads within 10 years served as a good indication of the continuing rapid growth of plug-in vehicles. The earliest electric motor documented was in the late 1820s and rechargeable batteries for automobiles first appeared in 1859 – but it’s only in the past decade that sales have really accelerated from around 125001 electric cars globally in 2010 to more than 10 million2 today. Some projections put the worldwide number of electric vehicles by 2030 at 200 million. Electric cars help reduce our carbon footprint Research suggests that across its entire lifecycle an electric car has less impact on climate change than gasoline cars producing fewer direct emissions. Tough regulations to reduce the carbon footprint of the transport sector will mean a significant gear change for manufacturers of lithium-ion batteries – and it’s the high quality of minerals and other ingredients in these batteries that are making electric vehicles a more attractive proposition. The key role of carbon black & graphite in lithium-ion batteries Minerals do not produce energy but they enable all other active components in the battery to do just that. Marcello Coluccia Imerys’ Application Director for Lithium-ion and Conductive Polymers refers to carbon black and graphite which Imerys produces in Belgium and Switzerland respectively as the “salt and pepper in the main dish. Added in tiny amounts – less than 1% of the total raw materials – they are critical to supporting an electronically conductive path. On the positive side of the battery (the cathode) are metal oxides and the graphite is on the negative side (the anode). It is compulsory to use carbon black or graphite on the cathode but it is not always necessary on the anode. “Without it you would have materials that have the potential to deliver a lot of energy but their electrons wouldn’t be able to find the way to those particles Marcello explains. “Carbon black exploits that energy within the battery by building a network – an electrically conductive path – for the electrons to reach the metal oxide particles. The higher performing the additive in enabling electrical conductivity the less battery-makers need to use. How does electric car battery technology meet drivers’ needs? Ten years ago people were concerned about battery capacity. “Typical battery performance meant the distance that could be travelled on one charge was limited says Marcello. “People had a fear of being stranded – it’s called range anxiety. Also there were safety incidents related to the battery. If people are worried a car might catch fire they are not going to buy it. So what are drivers looking for in an electric car? Improved driving range. Today’s lithium-ion batteries take you further – around 400 kilometres on one charge. That’s about four times the distance of early electric vehicles. The range is a consequence of energy density – achieved either by bigger batteries or higher performing elements within them. A quick-charging car. If your battery is running low you don’t want to have to plug it in at a public service station for several hours to charge it sufficiently to get you to your destination. The design and raw materials – including minerals – play a critical role in the development of electric car batteries capable of charging to around 80% in 20 minutes. A safe vehicle. Accidents relating to batteries catching fire have been well publicized. With the number of electric vehicles on the road growing rapidly their reputation as a credible mode of transport relies on the number of safety incidents not increasing. “Safety relies on the combination and cleanliness of ingredients in the battery management system insists Marcello. “In pushing the performance of a battery you can’t compromise the quality of raw materials and therefore safety aspects.“ The purity of carbon black and graphite is essential to give the optimum safety performance. We are talking about impurity levels on a scale of parts per billion. Every contaminant has the potential to cause a circuit failure and kill the battery.
New ownership brings Montana talc plants out of bankruptcy _ Local _ mtstandard.com. Imerys Talc America the company operating the talc-milling plant in Three Forks was purchased out of bankruptcy by Magris Resources Canada Inc. on Feb. 16. For $223 million Magris purchased substantially all of France-based Imerys S.A.’s Canadian and United States talc assets. In addition to the Three Forks mill Magris now owns the other Imerys talc sites in Montana—the Yellowstone Mine in Cameron and mill in Sappington. The talc mill in Three Forks has new ownership after it was bought out of bankruptcy by Magris Resources Canada Inc. on Feb. 16. Meagan Thompson The Montana Standard 3/8/2021 New ownership brings Montana talc plants out of bankruptcy | Local | mtstandard.com https://mtstandard.com/news/local/new-ownership-brings-montana-talc-plants-out-of-bankruptcy/article_8e9736ce-bd8c-5088-9a17-7d8ef64706d0.html 2/4 The three North American talc subsidiaries of Imerys filed voluntarily for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Feb. 13 2019 in the midst of thousands of lawsuits charging the company’s products cause cancer which the company denies. As part of the bankruptcy process the company was permitted to continue operation and a trust fund must be established as a mechanism to settle the personal injury claims. On May 15 2020 the Imerys subsidiaries filed their Plan of Reorganization and the related Disclosure Statement aimed at settling the ongoing lawsuits according to court documents available at https://cases.primeclerk.com/imerystalc/. The trust fund will be established once the plan is confirmed. Those with a talc personal injury claim have the right to vote on the company’s plan before March 25 and the U.S. Bankruptcy Court will hold a hearing to consider confirmation of the plan on June 21. The Bankruptcy Court approved the sale to Magris on Nov. 16 2020 with the sale contributing to the trust fund to settle personal injury claims. Local workforce Giorgio La Motta was the president of the three Imerys subsidiaries and is now the president and general manager of Magris Talc USA and Canada. When Imerys Talc America filed bankruptcy La Motta said employees at U.S. sites shouldn’t see any changes to their roles wages or benefits. In an interview following the sale La Motta said that has indeed been the case and will continue into the future under Magris ownership. Pat Downey director of western operations for Magris Talc USA and longtime manager of Montana site operations said the sale is a good thing for employees at the Montana sites. 3/8/2021 New ownership brings Montana talc plants out of bankruptcy | Local | mtstandard.com https://mtstandard.com/news/local/new-ownership-brings-montana-talc-plants-out-of-bankruptcy/article_8e9736ce-bd8c-5088-9a17-7d8ef64706d0.html 3/4 “Were glad that the Chapter 11 process for us is over. Now we know our future. We have an owner its a good owner. So whatever uncertainty we had is behind us now Downey said. The talc mill in Three Forks was the site of an employee lockout in 2018 after employees were unable to agree with management to the terms of a new contract. The lockout lasted three months during which the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers’ Local D-239 union group picketed on behalf of union workers at the mill. Former Gov. Bullock and Sen. Jon Tester joined pickets in person and Sen. Steve Daines released a statement supporting the workers. “The lockout was difficult for the hourly employees that were locked out and it was difficult also for the salaried employees that were operating the plant and continued to support the business and keep our customers satisfied by producing product. But since then weve made a management change here at the plant level and our relationship with the workforce has continually improved Downey said. Currently Magris employs 143 people at its Montana plants 43 paid hourly and 100 salaried according to La Motta. Liability When bankruptcy was filed La Motta said The safety of talc has been confirmed by dozens of peer-reviewed studies as well as regulatory and scientific bodies and the litigation is entirely without merit. However it is simply not in the best interests of our stakeholders to litigate these claims in perpetuity and incur millions of dollars in projected legal costs to defend these cases. By deciding to file for Chapter 11 protection we have laid the groundwork to efficiently resolve our historic talc-related liabilities and focus on our continued success in the industry. Within the last four months leading up to the sale La Motta said Imerys Talc America decided to discontinue talc production for personal care products—the subject of the personal injury claims—instead focusing on the industrial end of its business. 3/8/2021 New ownership brings Montana talc plants out of bankruptcy | Local | mtstandard.com https://mtstandard.com/news/local/new-ownership-brings-montana-talc-plants-out-of-bankruptcy/article_8e9736ce-bd8c-5088-9a17-7d8ef64706d0.html 4/4 “We decided that cosmetics has never been a strategic industry as a market for us. And given the size of it versus the liability elements—despite that we completely stand for the safety of our talc and we know that our talc is safe—we have decided to not continue to sell into that industry for those reasons La Motta said.
Imerys-announces-a-new-inInvestment-to-support-the-fast-growing-market-of-lithium-ion-batteries-for-electric-vehicles. Imerys announces a new investment to support the fast growing market of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles Imerys a global leader in graphite & carbon solutions announces today that it will expand its carbon black production capacity at its plant in Willebroek Belgium to meet the increasing demand for its specialty conductive additives in particular for lithium-ion batteries. This investment of €60 million over a two-year period follows the capacity expansion of synthetic graphite announced last September at its plant in Bodio Switzerland both aiming to support the strong growth of the electric vehicle market worldwide. With a unique portfolio of natural and synthetic graphite powders conductive carbon blacks and tailor-made dispersions Imerys will continue to develop innovative materials for safer and higher-performing batteries in close cooperation with the leading lithium-ion battery producers in the world.
RECYCLING PROJECTS OFFER TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES FOR COMMUNITIES IN BRAZIL. Based on the strategy of using solid waste that would have otherwise been discarded in Barcarena North of Brazil - where the largest Imerys kaolin processing plant in the world is located the Sustainable Entrepreneurship project has been providing community members with new sources of income and professional training. By working with recycled materials such as pet bottles tires milk cartons glass fabrics and now wood pallets - the materials are being used in the production of various types of craft work for reuse in the community. In 2018 the first initiative to reuse pallets as part of the Sustainable Entrepreneurship project was launched. The objective was to create items for use in new leisure spaces in the communities close to our operation. With the support of the residents together with Imerys and suppliers several improvement actions in the areas took place that provided more options for entertainment activities. The pallets were transformed into benches placed in community gardens that were surrounded by childrens toys where citizens could go experience and enjoy them. With the Sustainable Entrepreneurship project the objective was to disseminate techniques and habits through sustainability and urban agriculture in communities and offer collaborative activities to raise awareness of responsible and active citizens adds Flavia Souza Imerys Community Relations analyst responsible for coordinating the projects at the Barcarena units. In 2019 it started as a pallet workshop focused on the solidarity economy where techniques of wood evaluation cuts preparation and painting were taught. Before entering the production of more complex furniture a whole technical preparation was carried out with a preliminary phase such as the production of educational toys so that the participants could improve their coordination explains João Vitor responsible for the workshops on the sustainable entrepreneurship project. Through the Community Relations department pallets are donated to Casa Imerys the Groups social program that seeks to promote education quality of life and well-being in the communities. In the last supply of wood pallets by Imerys in September this year about 150 units were delivered totaling 1300 kg of high use wood potential. Empowered women through access to technical trainings What stood out from the project is the participation of women over the age of 25 who used to have domestic activity as their main focus. Of the 20 active students 19 are women who sought this technical training with objectives to generate income for their families through the production and sale of their products. They are housewives who in addition to their activities at home are in search of training. They take on an activity usually considered only for men as the workshop involves manual labor using tools for the transformation of pallets into furniture commented Flávia. I always liked to work with crafts. Today I feel happy because I have learnt many things thanks to Casa Imerys. The teachers are excellent. Now I am thinking about promoting my work and opening a space to sell the products I make. Maria Joana RESIDENT OF VILA DO CONDE For student Miguelzinha Morão also from Vila do Conde this project is providing her with a new apprenticeship since it is her first time working with handicrafts. It is undoubtedly something new for me and has become a great experience. I will definitely use the knowledge acquired at Casa Imerys. This activity has helped me to prove to myself that I am capable of moving forward despite difficulties. I can I want and I will because I have the disposition and persistence now she reinforced. Unfortunately due to Coronavirus the pallet workshop was postponed for a few months. However even in the face of a pandemic and several difficulties the students of the project did not give up. Theoretical classes have started to be taught online until face-to-face meetings can begin again. Today Casa Imerys is working in a reduced capacity and continues to comply with all health and safety protocols.
Recycling Projects Offer Training Opportunitits for Communities in Brazil. RECYCLING PROJECTS OFFER TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES FOR COMMUNITIES IN BRAZIL Materials that were previously discarded after use became raw material in the hands of community residents close to our operations in Barcarena. Based on the strategy of using solid waste that would have otherwise been discarded in Barcarena North of Brazil - where the largest Imerys kaolin processing plant in the world is located the Sustainable Entrepreneurship project has been providing community members with new sources of income and professional training. By working with recycled materials such as pet bottles tires milk cartons glass fabrics and now wood pallets - the materials are being used in the production of various types of craft work for reuse in the community. In 2018 the first initiative to reuse pallets as part of the Sustainable Entrepreneurship project was launched. The objective was to create items for use in new leisure spaces in the communities close to our operation. With the support of the residents together with Imerys and suppliers several improvement actions in the areas took place that provided more options for entertainment activities. The pallets were transformed into benches placed in community gardens that were surrounded by childrens toys where citizens could go experience and enjoy them. With the Sustainable Entrepreneurship project the objective was to disseminate techniques and habits through sustainability and urban agriculture in communities and offer collaborative activities to raise awareness of responsible and active citizens adds Flavia Souza Imerys Community Relations analyst responsible for coordinating the projects at the Barcarena units. In 2019 it started as a pallet workshop focused on the solidarity economy where techniques of wood evaluation cuts preparation and painting were taught. Before entering the production of more complex furniture a whole technical preparation was carried out with a preliminary phase such as the production of educational toys so that the participants could improve their coordination explains João Vitor responsible for the workshops on the sustainable entrepreneurship project. Through the Community Relations department pallets are donated to Casa Imerys the Groups social program that seeks to promote education quality of life and well-being in the communities. In the last supply of wood pallets by Imerys in September this year about 150 units were delivered totaling 1300 kg of high use wood potential. Empowered women through access to technical trainings What stood out from the project is the participation of women over the age of 25 who used to have domestic activity as their main focus. Of the 20 active students 19 are women who sought this technical training with objectives to generate income for their families through the production and sale of their products. They are housewives who in addition to their activities at home are in search of training. They take on an activity usually considered only for men as the workshop involves manual labor using tools for the transformation of pallets into furniture commented Flávia. I always liked to work with crafts. Today I feel happy because I have learnt many things thanks to Casa Imerys. The teachers are excellent. Now I am thinking about promoting my work and opening a space to sell the products I make. Maria Joana RESIDENT OF VILA DO CONDE For student Miguelzinha Morão also from Vila do Conde this project is providing her with a new apprenticeship since it is her first time working with handicrafts. It is undoubtedly something new for me and has become a great experience. I will definitely use the knowledge acquired at Casa Imerys. This activity has helped me to prove to myself that I am capable of moving forward despite difficulties. I can I want and I will because I have the disposition and persistence now she reinforced.
Compatibiliser solution for PE PP mix_Imerys. Compatibiliser solution for PE/PP mix One method for dealing with a mixed polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP) waste stream from packaging waste is compatibilisation. Normally immiscible PE and PP can be blended by using compatibiliser additives resulting in a recycled material suitable for durable applications (see feature in Plastics Recycling World May-June 2020 issue). Cyril Coppel Marketing Manager at compatibiliser company Imerys says: “The current challenge for recycled plastics is to ensure that the mechanical properties of these eco-friendly materials — which tend to deteriorate during the recycling process — are maintained or even enhanced to enable them to meet ever more stringent specifications fit for additional applications and remain cost-effective. Imerys has developed a mineralbased additive called Imerlink which it says enables “true compatibilisation by creating a chemical bond with PE and PP. This results in improved mechanical properties with an optimum stiffness/toughness and the solution is also cost effective says the company. The company adds Imerlink provides thermal stability and improved aesthetics. It says: “Using ImerLink recycled polyolefins materials that would otherwise not be compatible can now be processed at up to 100% and used in higher value applications that meet key performance requirements. Imerys says there is a shortage of recycled HDPE with MFI above 2.0 g/10min (2.16kg@190°C). It says: “To try to solve the problem some recyclers developed a blend of HDPE and PP for their customers wheelie bin producers. However sales are limited due to aesthetic issues. Tiger stripes appear on the injected containers due to an unstable melt flow front that occurs during mould filling. This is caused by insufficient bonding of the molten polymers due to immiscibility. It was clearly demonstrated that the mobile waste container produced with the ImerLink compatibilised formulation demonstrated homogeneous surface appearance and mechanical properties were aligned with the demanding application’s requirements. In extrusion typically recycled HDPE is used for twin-wall pipes in this market says Imerys. “Recycled HDPE is readily available from a variety of post-industrial (old pipes) and post-consumer sources (bottles). Problems occur when PP contamination rates in the rHDPE are above 3-5%. A few companies use virgin HDPE and some use virgin PP. Using ImerLink as a compatibiliser allows recyclers/compounders to use post-consumer wastes that have not been heavily sorted.
Magris Resources to Acquire North American Talc Assets (Imerys). Magris Resources to Acquire North American Talc Assets NEWS PROVIDED BY Magris Resources Inc Oct 13 2020 21:59 ET TORONTO Oct. 13 2020 /PRNewswire/ - Magris Resources Canada Inc. (Magris) is pleased to announce that it has entered into a definitive stalking-horse agreement to acquire substantially all the assets of Imerys Talc America Inc. Imerys Talc Vermont Inc. and Imerys Talc Canada Inc. (collectively the North American Talc Business) for US$223 million. The North American Talc Business is being sold under proceedings commenced by the sellers under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and the Companies Creditors Arrangement Act. The agreement will become fully effective and legally binding after the relevant United States and Canadian courts issue orders to approve it. The North American Talc Business is North Americas premier producer of talc which is a critical performance-enhancing ingredient used in a variety of industrial applications. Its operations consist of three long-life mines and six processing facilities located in the United States and Canada. We are excited to acquire the North American Talc Business which is underpinned by high-quality long-life assets that produce a variety of talc products for blue-chip customers in diverse industrial end markets. We have been extremely impressed by the quality and safety culture of the operations and workforce and look forward to partnering with the existing management team to continue to grow this business said Aaron Regent Chairman & CEO of Magris. We look forward to welcoming the North American Talc Business to the Magris family. The combination of the North American Talc Business and our existing niobium business in Canada represents a unique opportunity to realize meaningful synergies and create an industrial minerals platform that Magris can continue to invest in and scale said Matthew Fenton President & CFO of Magris. The transaction is expected to close by late 2020 or early 2021 subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
Turning Waste into a Valuable Biofuel through innovative mineral-based filtration. TURNING WASTE INTO A VALUABLE BIOFUEL THROUGH INNOVATIVE MINERAL-BASED FILTRATION For years virgin oils have been the in-demand ingredient in biofuels to help meet sustainability goals. Improved filtration techniques thanks to minerals such as diatomite mean even the most heavily contaminated waste fat can be used to run engines. If you’ve ever seen a McDonald’s truck with “We recycle all our used cooking oil into biodiesel written across the side you may have wondered how the liquid that crisps up your French fries ends up in a fuel tank. It’s down to a filterable adsorbent that uses diatomaceous earth to turn waste into something of value. Biofuel mandates are increasing demand for renewable raw materials Biofuels including those using waste-based feedstocks have proved to be as effective as fossil fuels – if filtered properly – as well as being cleaner for the environment. To help reduce greenhouse gas emissions as part of international climate change frameworks such as the Kyoto Protocol governments are steadily increasing the proportion of biodiesel required as a blend in fuel. More than 60 countries – most in the EU – now have such policies in place. For example France’s biodiesel roadmap is aiming for a 15% incorporation rate by 2030. Indonesia has had a requirement for a 20% biomix since 2018. And Brazil mandates a minimum 27% ethanol content. As the world’s leading supplier of soybean oil Argentina generates about $1.7 billion a year in revenue from biodiesel exports. Biofuel is not just good for the environment – it’s big business. To make this sustainable future a reality there is an increasing need for renewable raw materials including virgin oils such as palm sunflower and rapeseed oil as well as lower-quality waste-based feedstocks. Hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) is proving a particularly attractive proposition as it is suitable as a 100% fuel source – it doesn’t need to be blended with petroleum-based diesel. Whatever the source the feedstock needs to be refined before it can be blended and put in your fuel tank – either filtered or water washed with a centrifuge. The latter process effectively scrubs away the contaminants but has a few drawbacks. It uses a lot of water which is not good for the environment – and because the water is used to remove contaminants it cannot be returned to the river until it is treated which is a significant cost. For that reason more biofuel suppliers are moving towards filtration.
Imerys is recognized in Brazil as The Best Supplier of the Year by the Pant Industry. n September the Brazilian magazine Paint & Pintura recognized Imerys as Best Supplier in the Industrial Minerals (Natural and Synthetic Fillers) category as voted by paint producing customers. With 32% of votes we were selected as the best when compared to over 70 other similar suppliers in the segment. To talk more about the importance of the award and what Imerys has done to achieve this recognition we invited the Sales Manager for Paints and Coatings Fabrício Rodrigues to answer a few questions. What does this award represent to the market and to Imerys? Fabrício Rodrigues - The award is affectionately nicknamed “The Oscar in the Paints sector and has over the years become a good practice in our market for its recognition of the efforts and skills of the companies that make up the supply chain of this segment. For Imerys the prize is a measurement of how we are doing whether we are improving or not. We have the responsibility to play a leading role given our leadership technological expertise and wide portfolio of mineral solutions in the market. The award crowns all our efforts to be an organization that is focused on better serving our customers. For the seventh consecutive year Imerys maintained its first place status however with an increase of 12% of the votes compared to the previous year. What improvements and innovations have been implemented to achieve this honor? Fabrício - We have a great responsibility as a team to bring “Value to our customers and this has only been possible through investments in smarter management systems “realtime leadership support and new gains in solution-based innovations. For example the acquisition of the company EDK in Southeast Brazil increased our portfolio of products and services for the paint industry sector. And on top of all that we have a fantastic team passionate about what they do. What was considered in the Paint & Pintura survey with customers? Fabrício - The research carried out to determine the winners for the award is strongly related to overall awareness notably brand awareness and how we are viewed in this market compared to our competition in Brazil. What are the next steps for the sector? Fabrício - We believe that due to the ‘new normal’ this segment has adopted a more collaborative approach to the supply chain which has allowed greater adherence to the real needs of our customers and ultimately to the consumer. Technology that was already within reach is now being actively explored and used which has encouraged both manufacturers and suppliers to seek functional more efficient products that add value to the business and are sustainable for the environment. Once again functional minerals play a key role in the value chain helping our customers solve challenges to the cost and performance equation in their formulations.
Imerys IMCD Expand Distribution Agreement. IMERYS IMCD Expand Distro Agreement IMCD will now represent IMERYS Performance Minerals as its preferred distributor across the U.S. and Canada. RELATED CONTENT • IMCD Fully Integrates HORN Ink World staff09.11.20 IMERYS and IMCD expanded their distribution agreement. IMCD will now represent IMERYS Performance Minerals as its preferred distributor across the U.S. and Canada. The partnership is expected to provide customers with a consolidated point of contact ready to provide access to IMERYS expansive multi-mineral product portfolio backed by IMCDs technical sales expertise laboratory support and extensive footprint in the region. IMCD will represent nearly all IMERYS mineral offerings except for air float kaolin in Canada. This expanded distribution agreement is a testament to the trust and confidence we strive to build with our supplier partners said Marcus Jordan Americas president IMCD. Teaming up with IMCD across the U.S. and Canada means access to our coast-to-coast market-focused technical knowledge and logistical reach delivering effective solutions driving innovation and cultivating market growth. Partnering with IMCD is the next exciting step forward in our continuing efforts to provide customercentric solutions through market-based expertise and infrastructure added Jim Murberger senior VP and GM IMERYS Performance Minerals Americas. RELATED SEARCHES
Imerys’ CynerSorb filterable adsorbent for pretreatment of low-quality feedstock.. Biodiesel Production Technology Summit BBI International and Biodiesel Magazine announced in mid-May that the agenda for the Biodiesel Production Technology Summit set to take place Aug. 24-26 2020 in Omaha Nebraska has been released and is now available online. Featuring two full days of panel discussions by more than 30 experts the Biodiesel Production Technology Summit provides a balanced mix of content including biodiesel and renewable diesel topics covering pretreatment new process technologies improving existing production technologies posttreatment and much more. Handcrafted by Biodiesel Magazine Editor in Chief Ron Kotrba from dozens of submitted abstracts along with personal invitations to his deep industry connections after more than 15 years with the publication the Biodiesel Production Technology Summit agenda is designed specifically for existing and future biodiesel and renewable diesel producers to learn about cutting-edge process technologies new techniques and equipment to optimize existing production and efficiencies to save money while increasing throughput and fuel quality. The agenda paired with extensive networking opportunities and an exposition hall are anticipated to provide an unrivaled conference experience for all producers of biomass-based diesel. Co-located with the International Fuel Ethanol Workshop & Expo the combined events are expected to be the world’s largest gathering of biofuel producers. In an unprecedented move event owner and operator BBI International is providing unlimited free passes for producers of ethanol and biomass-based diesel to attend the FEW and Biodiesel Production Technology Summit. Registrants of the FEW will also be encouraged to freely attend technical sessions at the co-located Biodiesel Production Technology Summit in order to learn the latest information on biodiesel and renewable diesel which may assist in decisions whether to co-locate biomass-based diesel production at their ethanol refineries. “I am proud of the impressive agenda we have created for the inaugural Biodiesel Production Technology Summit says Kotrba who also serves as program director for the biodiesel event. “Our speaker lineup features some of the largest most respected and well-known companies and individuals in the sector. The dates and venue for the event were changed from June 15-17 in Minneapolis to Aug. 24-26 in Omaha due to the coronavirus pandemic. With the later dates and continuous monitoring of the crisis in addition to taking necessary steps to help create a safe and healthy conference Cynersorb approximately doubled flux compared to the benchmark. Thus filtration could be achieved with one third of the filter-leaf area with run times approximately five times longer due to lower pressure rise and lower powder dosage. SOURCE: IMERYS ADVERTISEMENT Join Our Mailing List email address Subscribe 7/9/2020 Biodiesel Magazine - The Latest News and Data About Biodiesel Production biodieselmagazine.com/articles/2517056/technology-tools-of-the-trade 2/3 ADVERTISEMENT experience BBI International is anticipating a successful show. The company has updated its Biodiesel Production Technology Summit website with a Frequently Asked Questions page and COVID-19 Safety Plan for patrons. To view the agenda current sponsors and how to reserve a booth register or become a sponsor visit biodieseltechnologysummit.com or call 866-746-8385. CynerSorb Environmental policies and sustainability concerns continue to push biodiesel and renewable diesel producers toward waste-based feedstocks which contain more impurities than virgin oils. “Current adsorbents have very poor filtration characteristics says David Gittins Imerys Filtration science and technology director. “Therefore higher dosing rates are leading to choked flows lower capacity and reduced performance. Meanwhile many national governments are increasing their biodiesel mandates while U.S. and European interest in producing renewable diesel is on the rise. “The market is growing Gittins says. In order to facilitate more market throughput to meet demand producers require more throughput from their adsorbents. “It’s not that existing adsorbents don’t work Gittins says. “What lets them down is their relatively poor filtration characteristics—they tend to block the filter bed leading to shorter filtration cycles. By starting with a filter aid and then adding proprietary surface engineering Imerys has eliminated this poor filtration functionality with its CynerSorb range of filterable adsorbents. Matt Jordan Imerys Filtration’s technical support manager says some end users of silica gel bleaching clay or synthetic silicate adsorbents mix them with conventional diatomite filter aids to keep the filter bed open. “This is only addressing the symptoms not the root cause he says. “CynerSorb is a two-in-one solution for removing impurities while maintaining high porosity allowing for much higher flux rates than current solutions. Jordan and Gittins say CynerSorb’s superior filtration characteristics derived from the structure of the diatomite backbone used to make CynerSorb allow for longer filtration cycles. “Each CynerSorb particle has a multitude of small microscopic pores what we call ‘micro-porosity’ Jordan says. “This not only increases the surface area but also allows for better capture of small potentially submicron particles. This propriety surface activation of the diatoms means all the adsorbent sites are readily available hence adsorption is significantly quicker. This is how we can get better removal of unwanted contaminants even at lower dosing rates as our trial data show. In one industrial trial Imerys compared its filterable adsorbent with silica gel and documented run length residual soaps and dosage. Silica gel had a run length of 11 hours leaving 5.4 parts per million (ppm) soaps at a dosing of 0.09 percent. CynerSorb showed a run length of 43 hours leaving 3.4 ppm soaps behind at a dose of 0.05 percent. “This is true not only for soaps but also for metals and phosphorus Jordan says. Lab trials for a biodiesel producer in Europe showed four times more phosphorus removal with CynerSorb than a clay-based adsorbent system at the same dosing rates. What the team realized from this is how useful CynerSorb could be in also pretreating renewable diesel feedstock. “The catalysts used in [hydrotreated vegetable oil] production can be hugely expensive compared to adsorbent costs Jordan says. “Anything that can extend the life of the catalyst can have huge cost-saving benefits. Sure refiners could get super-low phosphorous levels by doubling tripling or quadrupling their adsorbent dosing rates but again this will just kill filter life. This is the essence of the CynerSorb filterable adsorbent range. Imerys offers five grades of CynerSorb product with varying filtration characteristics depending on the customers’ needs. “This is the widest selection for the end user Jordan says. “In feedstock pretreatment CynerSorb removes metals and can degum too which can be done with or without adding acid. He says the best application for CynerSorb is on the front end addressing impurities early on so producers don’t have to deal with them later. “Taking care of the bad things on the front end helps improve conversion and separation down the line he says. CynerSorb has varying ranges of permeability but also added functionality for soap removal if needed. “Metals and impurity removal are consistent among all grades of CynerSorb Jordan adds. Fifteen years ago Imerys recognized the need for higher commitment to R&D and CynerSorb was one of many innovations to stem from this. Today Imerys is working on detailed studies into specific feedstock blends “in order to be of higher value to plants that are now being designed Jordan says. “New plants are planning on utilizing lower-cost lower-quality feedstock blends. Imerys is working with industry-leading engineering firms and equipment manufacturers to reduce the total cost of ownership while operating and enabling new plant builds to be constructed with significantly smaller footprints and capital expenditure. More recently with increasing water scarcity and tightening effluent regulations Imerys has been approached to advise on replacing water-wash systems with dry-wash alternatives. Couple its filtration and impurities reduction performance with the side benefit of significant waste cake disposal reduction due to greater cycle lengths and lower dosing rates and in some larger biodiesel plants this could be a six- to seven-figure cost avoidance Jordan says. While Imerys’ proven track record and innovation are core to its reputation Jordan says customer focus is its greatest strength. “We work closely with our customers at their plants to help identify new solutions to problems that have yet to happen he says. “If producers are having issues achieving throughput stemming from feedstock blends or elevated dosing rates hindering pretreatment performance they should think about CynerSorb.
Update regarding the resolution of historic talc-related liabilities in the USA. Dear colleagues The sale process for Imerys SA’s North American talc subsidiaries’ assets has been approved by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. To avoid complicating the court approved sale process with a potential bid from the asset’s most recent owner Imerys SA and the Official Committee of Tort Claimants have agreed that Imerys SA will not participate in the sale process as a bidder. If you have additional questions about this update you may reach out to Claire Garnier at claire.garnier@imerys.com Sincerely Frédérique Berthier Raymond Group General Couns
Volcanic glass spray shows promise in controlling mosquitoes _ Imerys. Volcanic glass spray shows promise in controlling mosquitoes NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY An indoor residual spray made by combining a type of volcanic glass with water showed eective control of mosquitoes that carry malaria according to a new study. The ndings could be useful in reducing disease-carrying mosquito populations - and the risk of malaria - in Africa. Malaria an infectious disease transmitted by mosquitoes annually kills some 400000 people in Africa. The use of insecticide-treated bed nets and indoor residual sprays are the most common and eective methods of reducing mosquito populations in Africa. But mosquitoes are becoming increasingly resistant to the commonly used insecticides such as pyrethroids so the need for alternative safe chemistry to use in controlling mosquitoes is important. The volcanic glass material used in this new intervention is perlite an industrial mineral most frequently used in building materials and in gardens as a soil additive. The tested insecticide created from perlite called Imergard WP can be applied to interior walls and ceilings - and perhaps even inside roofs - as an indoor residual spray. The spray contains no additional chemicals is not toxic to mammals and will be cost eective. Early results show that mosquitoes do not appear to have resistance to the perlite spray. In the study North Carolina State University entomologists worked with the Innovative Vector Control Consortium (IVCC) based at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine and Imerys Filtration Minerals Inc. to test Imergard WP. Researchers used the spray in experimental huts in the Republic of Benin (West Africa) to test the eects of the spray on both wild and more susceptible strains of Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes the primary malaria vector in sub-Saharan Africa. Researchers used four dierent tests to verify the ecacy of Imergard WP. Control study huts had no mosquito-prevention spray. In the second group hut walls were coated with a common pyrethroid. Hut walls were sprayed with Imergard WP in the third group while in the fourth group hut walls were sprayed with a mixture of Imergard WP and the common pyrethroid. Huts with walls treated with Imergard WP with and without the pyrethroid showed the largest mosquito mortality rates. Results showed mortality rates of mosquitos alighting on Imergard WP-treated walls were greater than 80% up to ve months after treatments and 78% at six months. The treatments were eective against both susceptible and wild-type mosquitoes. The statically transferred perlite particles essentially dehydrate the mosquito said Mike Roe William Neal Reynolds Distinguished Professor of Entomology at NC State and the corresponding author of the paper. Many die within a few hours of contact with the treated surface. Mosquitoes are not repelled from a treated surface because there is no olfactory mechanism to smell rock. Huts sprayed with only the common pesticide had mosquito mortality rates of around 40 to 45% over ve months with those rates dropping to 25% in month six of the study. The processing of perlite as an insecticide is novel said David Stewart commercial development manager for Imerys the company that created Imergard WP and co-author of the paper. This material is not a silver bullet but a new tool that can be considered as part of an insect vector management program. ### The study was published in the journal Insects. NC State postdoctoral researcher Jean M. Deguenon from Benin and a Fulbright alumnus in Roes lab is the papers rst author. Study co-authors include Charles S. Apperson from NC State Marian McCord now at the University of New Hampshire Roseric Azondekon Fiacre R. Agossa Gil G. Padonou Rodrigue Anagonou Juniace Ahoga Boris Ndombidje Bruno Akinro and Martin C. Akogbeto from the Centre de Recherche Entomologique de Cotonou Benin and Bo Wang David Gittins and Larissa Tihomirov from Imerys.
Tackling the War on Plastic Waste with Mineral-based Formulations. TACKLING THE WAR ON PLASTIC WASTE WITH MINERAL-BASED FORMULATIONS Platy minerals and barrier formulations offer an alternative to single-use plastic in food and drink packaging. Did you know that most paper cups you get from coffee shops or the office canteen are not entirely made of paper and cannot be recycled? These cups contain a thin inner coating of polyethylene material or wax to stop moisture – hot or cold liquid – leaking through or dripping out of the sealed edges. Every year 16 billion paper tea and coffee cups are used once – and thrown away. The plastic layer means that less than 1% of these can go into standard recycling waste streams and new cups are made from virgin material – felled trees rather than recycled paper. The impact of plastic waste on the environment is nothing short of devastating. Every year more than 300 million tons of plastic are produced half of which are for single-use applications such as coffee cups – and more than eight million tons of it end up in our oceans. Of course plastic will remain a critical commodity and for some items alternative materials cannot be used. Some single-use applications are necessary. In healthcare and medical research for example items such as syringes sample bags surgical instruments and gowns are used once to avoid cross-contamination. However as consumers we are becoming increasingly aware of the need to recycle more plastic – and avoid it altogether if it is not essential. Replace the plastic in paper cups with minerals to make them recyclable Through manufacturing innovation brands are responding to this societal pressure – to increase the reusability and recyclability of their products and help customers make better choices about their plastic consumption. Supermarkets are changing the way they package goods. Food and beverage manufacturers have stated their ambitions to provide products in fully recyclable and reusable packaging within the next decade. Around the world governments and lobbying groups have proposed levies on disposable cups bans on single-use plastics or legislation for all paper coffee cups to be recyclable within the next few years. Minerals can help meet this challenge. Imerys supplies minerals and/or formulations of polymers and minerals that allow this polyethylene lining to be completely removed and replaced with a recyclable repulpable barrier product.
Gold-standard Imerys will support suppliers through EcoVadis review _ Imerys. Imerys has entered into a three-year agreement with EcoVadis to assess its suppliers’ Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) performance as part of its commitment to responsible purchasing. Imerys has been rated by EcoVadis since 2014 and in 2019 the company rating progressed from Silver to Gold. EcoVadis will assess sustainability in Imerys supply chain Imerys suppliers will be encouraged to participate in the independent assessment by EcoVadis in order to identify areas for improvement. Imerys suppliers will complete a questionnaire and provide written evidence of their policies results and monitoring of performance covering health and safety labor environmental anticorruption and sustainable procurement. The questionnaire takes into account participating companies’ size activity and geographic scope. Review will measure business ethics and environmental standards Olivier Brunet Group Purchasing Vice President says: “A key element of the continual improvement of our own performance is our work with our suppliers. Our suppliers will be assessed following the same criteria as us so we will know that they are aligned with Imerys own Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We need to make sure we are working with strong reliable partners that can meet our Supplier ESG Standards. Imerys will support suppliers to develop in areas that are below standard. Suppliers will have access to the EcoVadis platform so they can improve their own performance and they will be able to use their rating as positive recognition with other customers. Leah Wilson Our existing relationship with EcoVadis relieves the administrative burden for all involved and is an opportunity for our buyers to engage with suppliers in a different way and on a different positive topic – ESG performance. We want to embark suppliers on a continuous improvement approach.
Webinar - Midwest SCC - Minerals in Cosmetics - by Frances Troy of Imerys. This webinar was presented on April 15 2020 Speaker: Frances M. Troy has worked for Imerys for 3 years and is the current Technical & Business Development Manager for the Life Sciences group in charge of Home & Personal care Food Pharmaceuticals Aquaculture and Water treatment segments She previously spent 17 years in the silicone industry in various technical roles and was Oil Gas & Mining R&D Manager at Kemira prior to joining Imerys. She has a M.S. in Chemistry from Central Michigan University & MBA from the University of Michigan. Abstract: Minerals have become an essential raw material in the cosmetics and personal care markets. With their natural profile they address the need for environmentally friendliness that is sought after. Even with this positive attribute there is a dark perception to minerals in the market with the growing concern over asbestos crystalline silica and heavy metals. Like most of the chemicals currently under attack people base the safety of minerals on a few facts that are not relevant to today’s manufacturing practices and standards. We will discuss what the reality of current minerals safety is address misconceptions and identify the general applications of minerals such as talc kaolin perlite mica and diatomaceous earth. These minerals have a place in a formulator’s toolbox and offer a natural and safe option to many applications. © Copyright 2020 Society of Cosmetic Chemists Midwest Chapter Inc.
Protecting Against the Threat of Toxins to Animals. From its mine in Greece Imerys sources the best quality bentonite for its animal feed product which is helping tackle a global problem in the agriculture sector. Climate change improper agricultural practices and increased global trade are affecting the prevalence of organic toxins in crops and food. These toxins harm the health of farm animals and as a result threaten the businesses of livestock producers. One of these toxins is particularly potent. Aflatoxins part of the mycotoxins group are natural mold substances produced from fungi. They are invisible and can be hidden in the grains that make up feed for all livestock species. These molds cause several problems to animals like gastrointestinal issues liver damage and immune deficiency and often lead to the formation of cancer. These illnesses can affect the animals’ ability to produce milk eggs or healthy meat or to conceive offspring – and farmers are unable to sell unhealthy animals. In the worstcase scenario mycotoxins can kill the animal. All this has a big financial impact for farmers but it also raises the concern of human toxicity related to the consumption of contaminated animal products. A bentonite product that supports the health of livestock and provides safe feed for farm animals Bentonite is the only material registered by the European Union to combat aflatoxins due to its content of smectite minerals like montmorillonite. Specifically aflatoxins are adsorbed inside smectites while within the animal’s bowel and excreted through the feces. However not all bentonites have the same aflatoxin adsorption capacity. For animal feed Imerys transforms bentonite from its mine in Milos Greece one of the biggest bentonite mines in the world into a feed ingredient. With different grades available this optimum grade of bentonite with low heavy metals meets official requirements for feed additives. Apart from binding toxins bentonite absorbs water and moisture into the animals’ gastrointestinal system reducing instances of diarrhea and consuming more dry matter leading to faster animal growth. Smectagri’s other functionality is an anti-caking agent. When feed grains or raw materials used as feed are stored they sometimes form clumps. Bentonite helps prevent clumps and keeps the free flow of the feed. As a technological additive Smectagri acts as a binder formulating durable pellets. Mycotoxins and aflatoxins are a huge problem for agriculture notably the growing of crops and farming of livestock. The public is growing increasingly concerned about the safety and quality of their food that comes from animals. Farmers need an effective and reliable means of securing their animals’ health and consequently consumers’ health. From our mine in Greece we have a consistent supply of a high-quality bentonite with the necessary properties to achieve best performance both as an aflatoxin binder and as a technological additive in animal feed.
Enhancing the calcium content in food and drinks _ Imerys. Eating a balanced diet with enough calcium and vitamin D helps to prevent osteoporosis (weakening of the bones) – a condition that our ever-increasing elderly populations can be affected with as they age. This will mean demand for calcium will rise significantly in the coming years. As well as helping to build strong bones and teeth calcium carbonate regulates our heartbeat makes sure blood clots normally and supports the proper functioning of muscles and nerves. Recognizing this critical role Imerys produces I-Blum™ Precipitated Calcium Carbonate as a value-adding ingredient. Calcium fortification in food and beverages is essential for the health of many people from babies and infants to those with calcium deficiencies or associated health risks. Calcium-enriched products are also important for people who do not consume dairy products such as milk. A safe pure and natural supply of calcium for the food industry I-Blum enhances the calcium content in various food and beverage products without compromising quality standards of taste and texture. It’s used in yogurts bakery snacks dairy-based and plant-based beverages and powdered beverage mixes as well as other items. The extra calcium is a nutritional boost that positively impacts the health and wellbeing of consumers. I-Blum is all about pure Precipitated Calcium Carbonate directly sourced from Imerys-owned reserves offering consistency of quality. With ownership of the mineral reserves Imerys has control over the entire process – from mine to customer – ensuring an increased level of safety and traceability. 5/1/2020 Enhancing the calcium content in food and drinks | Imerys https://www.imerys.com/enhancing-calcium-content-food-and-drinks 3/5 Arthur Kentin FOOD & PHARMA EXPERT Wellbeing is on everyone’s radar and people are more aware of their personal health. Society is increasingly thinking in terms of more than the basic nutritional need to avoid deficiency. Consumers prefer food with added nutritional value rather than taking supplements to fill up their calcium needs. Enhanced foods and dietary supplements provide nutrients t
Imerys - Kaolin - AkuaPro - Developing a Natural Remedy for Disease and Algae in Fish Farming. ish farming is the world’s fastest-growing industry within animal food production but infectious diseases and algae outbreaks are having a significant impact on fish health and welfare as well as causing huge product loss. Made from the mineral kaolin Imerys’ AkuaPro™ is an affordable antibiotic-free solution for fish farmers looking to combat this threat. Recently there has been a growing need from the aquaculture industry for a natural eco-friendly treatment to prevent or reduce bacterial diseases and address algae outbreaks in fish farms. Currently the typical treatments for such diseases contain antibiotics – a solution that not only escalates production costs and is less sustainable and environmentally friendly but also has serious potential consequences in regard to antibiotic resistance. Algae which competes for oxygen uptake is often addressed with copper sulfate technology. Not only is the copper toxic to fish but as algae dies it can release toxic chemicals and also kill fish. In response to these dilemmas Imerys has developed AkuaPro™ – an antibiotic-free and eco- and fish-friendly water treatment that protects fish from bacterial diseases and can address algae outbreaks while mitigating the risk of potential toxin release. Simple safe and effective to use AkuaPro™ is made using kaolin a natural clay mineral powder with a long history of medicinal use. Kaolin’s ability to disperse in water makes it ideal for use in aquaculture. AkuaPro™ contains no copper salts which are toxic to fish because their accumulation kills the beneficial bacteria that grows in pond sedimentation. Using AkuaPro™ to treat and mitigate the impact of major bacterial diseases and algal blooms Imerys’ studies have shown that the application of AkuaPro™ provides a significant improvement in the survival rate of fish compared to receiving no treatment. It reduces the bacterial attachment to fish tissues and scales reduces the occurrence of diseases caused by bacteria and it has no negative impact on fish health. It works best as a natural preventative treatment and can be easily added to fish farm vats before or after the onset of columnaris disease and Aeromonas hydrophila. Akuapro safely addresses the technical needs of the fish farming market. The product is multifunctional and flexible – it can be used in hatcheries or commercial ponds. It is a natural solution to deliver safe seafood to the world.
Imagine a world without Malaria - Minerals enable life-saving mosquito control. Perlite is the active ingredient in a novel mosquito insecticide that is a potential game-changer in the global battle against malaria. Every year more than 400000 people die from malaria the majority of which are children under the age of five and pregnant women in sub-Saharan Africa. Indoor residual sprays (IRS) have been an effective strategy to control malaria transmission and have helped reduce the number of annual deaths in recent years. However population growth urbanization in developing countries and climate change are megatrends helping mosquitoes evolve and become resistant to these treatments. If IRS is to remain an important element in an integrated vector control approach for sub-Saharan Africa alternative insecticides particularly ones with novel modes of action are urgently needed. Dr. Sarah J Moore IFAKARA HEALTH INSTITUTE AND SWISS TROPICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTE RBM PARTNERSHIP TO END MALARIA 2020 A mechanical insecticide offering an alternative mode of action to current IRS insecticides Imergard WP (Wettable Powder) is a 100%-perlite-based mechanical insecticide providing a physical mode of action. It is applied to interior walls using standard spray equipment. When the mosquito lands on a treated surface there is a static transfer of Imergard WP particles which absorb the lipid layer necessary for the mosquito’s survival. In a 2019 community trial in Tanzania where over 4000 houses were treated Imergard WP was able to control the malaria parasite as effectively as the gold standard chemical IRS. At the conclusion of the eight-month study Imergard WP maintained 100% efficacy after 72 hours against a threshold target of 80% mortality. The fact that Imergard WP held its own against the gold standard is impressive considering that the mosquitos in this study were susceptible to the gold standard’s active ingredient David Stewart COMMERCIAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT MANAGER Imergard WP’s advantage is that it provides a physical mode of action and is a powerful tool in resistance management. It is not a silver bullet but it will deter cross-chemical resistance development and complement existing IRS chemistries that are neurotoxins which act on nerve and muscle targets.
Information regarding the compensation of the executive corporate officers_Imerys. At the meeting of the Board of Directors of April 6 2020 Patrick Kron Chairman of the Board and Alessandro Dazza Chief Executive Officer have shared their intent to reduce by a quarter (- 25%) the remuneration which will be paid to them in 2020 for the period during which Imerys employees will be involved in short-time work schemes thus following the AFEP recommendations (see AFEP Press Release dated March 29 2020). The Board of Directors thanked on behalf of Imerys Patrick Kron and Alessandro Dazza for their approach and in accordance with these AFEP recommendations decided that the portion of their compensation which will then not be paid to them will be donated to solidarity actions in relationship with the Covid-19.
When Minerals Enable Advanced Filtration for Biopharma Needs. Imerys Celpure® is a high-purity filter aid (HPFA) that uses specially treated diatomite for solid/liquid separations – the process of passing a fluid through a permeable material to remove solid particles. The product’s history stretches back to 1997 when World Minerals Inc. a company that became part of Imerys in 2005 obtained a patent for an advanced filtration product especially for the pharmaceutical and biotech industries. Until that point customers had to rely on standard industrial or food-grade versions of diatomite or alternatives such as perlite. In 1998 World Minerals built a plant to produce HPFAs that use proprietary processes including acid washing as advanced techniques that ensure the final product meets the strict regulatory requirements for pharmaceutical processing. Celpure® is being produced from Imerys’ state-of-the-art Lompoc plant in California US. The Lompoc site was extended multiple times most recently in 2017 more than doubling capacity for purified products. Its advanced process control laboratory and specialized and controlled access storage warehouse along with plastic packaging help eliminate contamination
ImerCare Matte a natural alternative to plastic microbeads for mattifying effect in skincare and make-up. ImerCare Matte a natural alternative to plastic microbeads for mattifying effect in skincare and make-up 18-Mar-2020 Colour Cosmetics (/Category/Colour_Cosmetics) In the skincare and make-up routine a shiny face due to an excessive sebum secretion is a daily issue. To solve this problem mattifying agents are used in product compositions. Most efficient mattifying agents are synthetic generally plastic microbeads but these ingredients are increasingly turned down by the final customer due to the current market trend for zero-plastic and eco-friendly ingredients. The rising trend of “mineral make-up products results in natural mineral powders such as kaolin forming the main constituent. ImerCare Matte was hence engineered to obtain a 100% natural kaolin-based mattifying agent that can effectively replace plastic microbeads in gels creams liquid foundations and pressed powders. Compared to conventional kaolin ImerCare Matte has been specially processed to obtain an innovative microporous structure. This structure possesses a high surface area providing excellent sebum absorption for a natural matte skin finish. An external laboratory conducted a test on a panel with mixed to oily skin to compare the performance of three products: a mattifying gel containing 5% ImerCare Matte a benchmark containing 5% synthetic mattifying agent based on a synthetic polymer and a placebo without mattifying agent. The result demonstrated that the formulation containing ImerCare Matte had:
Imerys fire contained to single room. Chief: IMERYS fire contained to single room • ALVIN REINER/P-R PHOTO All was quiet at the IMERYS Wollastonite plant (formerly NYCO) in Willsboro after firefighters responded to a fire at the facility Monday evening. Essex County (NY) Dispatch put out a call for the fire shortly after 6 p.m. with departments from Willsboro Reber Essex and Keeseville responding. Willsboro Fire Chief John Cross said “some type of explosion set off a fire in an outer room with electrical panel boxes in it. “Workers shut the power down and everything Cross said letting firefighters hit the flames with dry chemicals and foam. The fire was contained to that initial room Cross said. Willsboro was back in service
Calcium carbonate from Vietnam a good source to replace Omya or Imerys. Calcium carbonate from Vietnam. A good source to replace Omya or Imerys? • Published on February 6 2020 Talia Vietnam Calcium Carbonate TanKy Mineral Sales Manager at Tan Ky Mineral Processing JSC 14 articles Follow Vietnam Calcium carbonate is a very good source. Now the exploitation activities of calcium carbonate is very busy with many factories from the North and Central of Vietnam. Calcium carbonate is grinding almost by Germany (Hosokawa Alpine -about 10 lines) and Chinese (about 20 lines). Tan Ky Mineral invested in manufacturing calcium carbonate with most model of Hosokawa Alpine in Vietnam. With high whiteness/brightness of calcium carbonate Tan Ky Mineral products now are exporting to all over the world with many industries for various application like paint pvc pipe filler master batch plastic paper... For more details please kindly visit our website: https://en.tankymineral.com.vn/ Tan Ky Mineral Processing Joint Stock Company- Leading manufacturer of calcium carbonate
Imerys seeks to reduce raw materials costs with Hysil acquisition. India: France-based Imerys has announced the acquisition of calcium silicate producer Hysil by its subsidiary Calderys Indian Refractories from CK Birla Group for Euro10.1m. SeeNews has reported that the expansion to Imerys’ Indian operations is aimed at securing lower prices for raw materials for use in high temperature insulation in various industries especially the cement sector.
Imerys expands in high performance abrasives in China. Imerys has completed the acquisition of 65% of Shandong Luxin Mount Tai Co. a leading Chinese producer of fused minerals for abrasives with €12 million annual revenue in 2018. With this deal Imerys a global leader in fused minerals will expand its presence in the growing abrasives market in China where it will notably increase its production capacity of ultra-fine alumina for high-performance abrasives. This business is consolidated in the Refractory Abrasives & Construction business area.
Imerys Considers Sale of Talc Business Linked to J&J Lawsuit. (Bloomberg) -- Imerys SA is exploring options for its North American talc operations which filed for bankruptcy after being drawn into cancer lawsuits connected to Johnson & Johnson’s baby powder people with knowledge of the matter said. The company is considering strategic alternatives that could include a sale of the businesses said the people who asked not to be identified discussing the private matter. Paris-based Imerys’ U.S. unit Imerys Talc America plans to work with advisers at PJT Partners Inc. though a formal mandate will require court approval the people said. Three North American units of Imerys filed for Chapter 11 protection from their creditors in February citing more than 14000 claims in U.S. courts brought mostly by women who allege the company’s talc caused their ovarian cancer. Others say they have mesothelioma brought on by asbestos in the talc. The businesses generated about $174 million of combined revenue in 2018 according to a court filing. Deliberations are at an early stage and no final decisions have been made the people said. A representative for Imerys declined to comment while a representative for PJT didn’t respond to requests for comment. Settlement Costs Proceeds from any sale could provide funds for settling lawsuits. When the North American talc business filed for bankruptcy Alexandra Picard who was chief financial officer at the time said the goal was to set up a trust to handle cancer and asbestos lawsuits filed against Imerys Talc. To set up and fund the trust Imerys Talc planned to negotiate with its creditors including those with medical claims and insurers. So far the company has not sought permission to sell itself at a court-supervised auction according to court documents. Under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code cases can be corralled under a single judge and Imerys can pressure plaintiffs to accept lower settlements. Other companies such as specialty chemical maker W.R. Grace & Co. have used similar filings to shield themselves from billions of dollars in lawsuit liabilities. W.R. Grace spent almost 11 years in bankruptcy before setting up a trust to pay victims of asbestos exposure. 11/28/2019 Imerys Considers Sale of Talc Business Linked to J&J Lawsuit https://finance.yahoo.com/news/imerys-considers-sale-talc-business-172912209.html 2/2 After Imerys filed bankruptcy J&J tried unsuccessfully to have lawsuits against it halted arguing that those cases should also be halted while Imerys reorganized and set up a victim’s trust. Imerys will need to persuade buyers that its industrial-talc business is attractive enough to eclipse potential liabilities linked to J&J products. Talc is also used in cosmetics plastics ceramics paper and coatings and the $1.1 billion industrial market is growing at 7% a year according to U.K. supplier Elementis Plc. It’s used to reinforce plastics molded into lightweight car parts a $600 million market according to a November presentation by Elementis. (Updates with Johnson & Johnson attempt to halt lawsuits in eighth paragraph.) To contact the reporters on this story: Andrew Noël in London at anoel@bloomberg.netMyriam Balezou in London at mbalezou@bloomberg.netSteven Church in Wilmington Delaware at schurch3@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story: Anthony Palazzo at apalazzo@bloomberg.net Dinesh Nair at dnair5@bloomberg.net Dawn McCarty Rick Green
